It really was most unfortunate.

Peggy had a temperature of nearly a hundred, and a
pain in her side, and Mrs. Workington Bancroft knew that
it was appendicitis. But there was no one whom she
could send for the doctor.

James had gone with the jaunting-car to meet her husband
who had at last managed to get away for a
week's shooting.

Adolph, she had sent to the Evershams, only half an
hour before, with a note for Lady Eva.

The cook could not manage to walk, even if dinner
could be served without her.

Kate, as usual, was not to be trusted.

There remained Miss Craig.

"Of course, you must see that Peggy is really ill,"
said she, as the governess came into the room, in
answer to her summons. "The difficulty is, that there is
absolutely no one whom I can send for the doctor."
Mrs. Workington Bancroft paused; she was always willing that those
beneath her should have the privilege of offering the services
which it was her right to command.

"So, perhaps, Miss Craig," she went on, "you would not
mind walking over to Tebbits' Farm. I hear there is
a Liverpool doctor staying there. Of course I know nothing
about him, but we must take the risk, and I
expect he'll be only too glad to be earning something
during his holiday. It's nearly four miles, I know, and
I'd never dream of asking you if it was not
that I dread appendicitis so."

"Very well," said Miss Craig, "I suppose I must go;
but I don't know the way."

"Oh you can't miss it," said Mrs. Workington Bancroft, in
her anxiety temporarily forgiving the obvious unwillingness of her governess'
consent.

"You follow the road across the moor for two miles,
until you come to Redman's Cross. You turn to the
left there, and follow a rough path that leads through
a larch plantation. And Tebbits' farm lies just below you
in the valley."

"And take Pontiff with you," she added, as the girl
left the room. "There's absolutely nothing to be afraid of,
but I expect you'll feel happier with the dog."

"Well, miss," said the cook, when Miss Craig went into
the kitchen to get her boots, which had been drying
by the fire; "of course she knows best, but I
don't think it's right after all that's happened for the
mistress to send you across the moors on a night
like this. It's not as if the doctor could do
anything for Miss Margaret if you do bring him. Every
child is like that once in a while. He'll only
say put her to bed, and she's there already."

"I don't see what there is to be afraid of,
cook," said Miss Craig as she laced her boots, "unless
you believe in ghosts."

"I'm not so sure about that. Anyhow I don't like
sleeping in a bed where the sheets are too short
for you to pull them over your head. But don't
you be frightened, miss. It's my belief that their bark
is worse than their bite."

But though Miss Craig amused herself for some minutes by
trying to imagine the bark of a ghost (a thing
altogether different from the classical ghostly bark), she did not
feel entirely at her ease.

She was naturally nervous, and living as she did in
the hinterland of the servants' hall, she had heard vague
details of true stories that were only myths in the
drawing-room.

The very name of Redman's Cross sent a shiver through
her; it must have been the place where that horrid
murder was committed. She had forgotten the tale, though she
remembered the name.

Her first disaster came soon enough.

Pontiff, who was naturally slow-witted, took more than five minutes
to find out that it was only the governess he
was escorting, but once the discovery had been made, he
promptly turned tail, paying not the slightest heed to Miss
Craig's feeble whistle. And then, to add to her discomfort,
the rain came, not in heavy drops, but driving in
sheets of thin spray that blotted out what few landmarks
there were upon the moor.

They were very kind at Tebbits' farm. The doctor had
gone back to Liverpool the day before, but Mrs. Tebbit
gave her hot milk and turf cakes, and offered her
reluctant son to show Miss Craig a shorter path on
to the moor, that avoided the larch wood.

He was a monosyllabic youth, but his presence was cheering,
and she felt the night doubly black when he left
her at the last gate.

She trudged on wearily. Her thoughts had already gone back
to the almost exhausted theme of the bark of ghosts,
when she heard steps on the road behind her that
were at least material. Next minute the figure of a
man appeared: Miss Craig was relieved to see that the
stranger was a clergyman. He raised his hat. "I believe
we are both going in the same direction," he said.

"Perhaps I may have the pleasure of escorting you." She
thanked him. "It is rather weird at night," she went
on, "and what with all the tales of ghosts and
bogies that one hears from the country people, I've ended
by being half afraid myself."

"I can understand your nervousness," he said, "especially on a
night like this. I used at one time to feel
the same, for my work often meant lonely walks across
the moor to farms which were only reached by rough
tracks difficult enough to find even in the daytime."

"And you never saw anything to frighten you--nothing immaterial I
mean?"

"I can't really say that I did, but I had
an experience eleven years ago which served as the turning
point in my life, and since you seem to be
now in much the same state of mind as I
was then in, I will tell it you.

"The time of year was late September. I had been
over to Westondale to see an old woman who was
dying, and then, just as I was about to start
on my way home, word came to me of another
of my parishioners who had been suddenly taken ill only
that morning. It was after seven when at last I
started. A farmer saw me on my way, turning back
when I reached the moor road.

"The sunset the previous evening had been one of the
most lovely I ever remember seeing. The whole vault of
heaven had been scattered with flakes of white cloud, tipped
with rosy pink like the strewn petals of a full-blown
rose.

"But that night all was changed. The sky was an
absolutely dull slate colour, except in one corner of the
west where a thin rift showed the last saffron tint
of the sullen sunset. As I walked, stiff and footsore,
my spirits sank. It must have been the marked contrast
between the two evenings, the one so lovely, so full
of promise (the corn was still out in the fields
spoiling for fine weather), the other so gloomy, so sad
with all the dead weight of autumn and winter days
to come. And then added to this sense of heavy
depression came another different feeling which I surprised myself by
recognising as fear.

"I did not know why I was afraid.

"The moors lay on either side of me, unbroken except
for a straggling line of turf shooting butts, that stood
within a stone's-throw of the road.

"The only sound I had heard for the last half
hour was the cry of the startled grouse--Go back, go
back, go back. But yet the feeling of fear was
there, affecting a low centre of my brain through some
little used physical channel.

"I buttoned my coat closer, and tried to divert my
thoughts by thinking of next Sunday's sermon.

"I had chosen to preach on Job. There is much
in the old-fashioned notion of the book, apart from all
the subtleties of the higher criticism, that appeals to country
people; the loss of herds and crops, the break up
of the family. I would not have dared to speak,
had not I too been a farmer; my own glebe
land had been flooded three weeks before, and I suppose
I stood to lose as much as any man in
the parish. As I walked along the road repeating to
myself the first chapter of the book, I stopped at
the twelfth verse.

"'And the Lord said unto Satan: Behold all that he
hath is in thy power'. . .

"The thought of the bad harvest (and that is an
awful thought in these valleys) vanished. I seemed to gaze
into an ocean of infinite darkness.

"I had often used, with the Sunday glibness of the
tired priest, whose duty it is to preach three sermons
in one day, the old simile of the chess board.
God and the Devil were the players: and we were
helping one side or the other. But until that night
I had not thought of the possibility of my being
only a pawn in the game, that God might throw
away that the game might be won.

"I had reached the place where we are now, I
remember it by that rough stone water-trough, when a man
suddenly jumped up from the roadside. He had been seated
on a heap of broken road metal."

'Which way are you going, guv'ner?' he said.

"I knew from the way he spoke that the man
was a stranger. There are many at this time of
the year who come up from the south, tramping northwards
with the ripening corn. I told him my destination.

"'We'll go along together,' he replied.

"It was too dark to see much of the man's
face, but what little I made out was coarse and
brutal.

"Then he began the half-menacing whine I knew so well--he
had tramped miles that day, he had had no food
since breakfast, and that was only a crust."

'Give us a copper', he said, 'it's only for a
night's lodging.'

"He was whittling away with a big clasp knife at
an ash stake he had taken from some hedge."

The clergyman broke off.

"Are those the lights of your house?" he said. "We
are nearer than I expected, but I shall have time
to finish my story. I think I will, for you
can run home in a couple of minutes, and I
don't want you to be frightened when you are out
on the moors again.

"As the man talked he seemed to have stepped out
of the very background of my thoughts, his sordid tale,
with the sad lies that hid a far sadder truth.

"He asked me the time.

"It was five minutes to nine. As I replaced my
watch I glanced at his face. His teeth were clenched,
and there was something in the gleam of his eyes
that told me at once his purpose.

"Have you ever known how long a second is? For
a third of a second I stood there facing him,
filled with an overwhelming pity for myself and him; and
then without a word of warning he was upon me.
I felt nothing. A flash of lightning ran down my
spine, I heard the dull crash of the ash stake,
and then a very gentle patter like the sound of
a far-distant stream. For a minute I lay in perfect
happiness watching the lights of the house as they increased
in number until the whole heaven shone with twinkling lamps.

"I could not have had a more painless death."

Miss Craig looked up. The man was gone; she was
alone on the moor.

She ran to the house, her teeth chattering, ran to
the solid shadow that crossed and recrossed the kitchen blind.

As she entered the hall, the clock on the stairs
struck the hour. It was nine o'clock.