Who has not cursed postmasters, who has not quarrelled with
them? Who, in a moment of anger, has not demanded
from them the fatal book in order to record in
it unavailing complaints of their extortions, rudeness and unpunctuality? Who
does not look upon them as monsters of the human
race, equal to the defunct attorneys, or, at least, the
brigands of Mourom? Let us, however, be just; let us
place ourselves in their position, and perhaps we shall begin
to judge them with more indulgence. What is a postmaster?
A veritable martyr of the fourteenth class,[1] only protected by
his rank from blows, and that not always (I appeal
to the conscience of my readers). What is the function
of this dictator, as Prince Viazemsky jokingly calls him? Is
he not an actual galley-slave? He has no rest either
day or night. All the vexation accumulated during the course
of a wearisome journey the traveller vents upon the postmaster.
Should the weather prove intolerable, the road abominable, the driver
obstinate, the horses ungovernable—the postmaster is to blame. Entering into
his poor abode, the traveller looks upon him as an
enemy, and the postmaster is fortunate if he succeeds in
soon getting rid of his uninvited guest; but if there
should happen to be no horses!... Heavens! what volleys of
abuse, what threats are showered upon his head! In rain
and sleet he is compelled to go out into the
courtyard; during times of storm and nipping frost, he is
glad to seek shelter in the vestibule, if only to
enjoy a minute's repose from the shouting and jostling of
incensed travellers.

A general arrives: the trembling postmaster gives him the two
last troikas, including that intended for the courier. The general
drives off without uttering a word of thanks. Five minutes
afterwards—a bell!... and a courier throws down upon the table
before him his order for fresh post-horses!... Let us bear
all this well in mind, and, instead of anger, our
hearts will be filled with sincere compassion. A few words
more. During a period of twenty years I have traversed
Russia in every direction; I know nearly all the post
roads, and I have made the acquaintance of several generations
of drivers. There are very few postmasters that I do
not know personally, and few with whom I have not
had business relations. In the course of time I hope
to publish some curious observations that I have noted down
during my travels. For the present I will only say
that the body of postmasters is presented to the public
in a very false light. These much-calumniated officials are generally
very peaceful persons, obliging by nature, disposed to be sociable,
modest in their pretensions and not too much addicted to
the love of money. From their conversation (which travelling gentlemen
very unreasonably despise) much may be learnt that is both
interesting and instructive. For my own part, I confess that
I prefer their talk to that of some official of
the sixth class travelling on government business.

It may easily be supposed that I have friends among
the honourable body of postmasters. Indeed, the memory of one
of them is dear to me. Circumstances once brought us
together, and it is of him that I now intend
to tell my amiable readers.

In the month of May of the year 1816, I
happened to be travelling through the Government of N——, upon
a road now destroyed. I then held an inferior rank,
and I travelled by post stages, paying the fare for
two horses. As a consequence, the postmasters treated me with
very little ceremony, and I often had to take by
force what, in my opinion, belonged to me by right.
Being young and passionate, I was indignant at the baseness
and cowardice of the postmaster, when the latter harnessed to
the caliche of some, official noble, the horses prepared for
me. It was a long time, too, before I could
get accustomed to being served out of my turn by
a discriminating servant at the governor's dinner. To-day the one
and the other seem to me to be in the
natural order of things. Indeed, what would become of us,
if, instead of the generally observed rule: "Let rank honour
rank," another were to be brought into use, as for
example: "Let mind honour mind?" What disputes would arise! And
with whom would the servants begin in serving the dishes?
But to return to my story.

The day was hot. About three versts from A——, a
drizzling rain came on, and in a few minutes it
began to pour down in torrents and I was drenched
to the skin. On arriving at the station, my first
care was to change my clothes as quickly as possible,
my second to ask for some tea.

"Hi! Dounia!"[2] cried the Postmaster: "prepare the tea-urn and go
and get some cream."

At these words, a young girl of about fourteen years
of age appeared from behind the partition, and ran out
into the vestibule. Her beauty struck me.

"Is that your daughter?" I inquired of the Postmaster.

"That is my daughter," he replied, with a look of
gratified pride; "and she is so sharp and sensible, just
like her late mother."

Then he began to register my travelling passport, and I
occupied myself with examining the pictures that adorned his humble
abode. They illustrated the story of the Prodigal Son. In
the first, a venerable old man, in a night-cap and
dressing-gown, is taking leave of the restless youth, who is
eagerly accepting his blessing and a bag of money. In
the next picture, the dissipated life of the young man
is depicted in vivid colours: he is represented sitting at
a table surrounded by false friends and shameless women. Further
on, the ruined youth, in rags and a three-cornered hat,
is tending swine and sharing with them their food: on
his face is expressed deep grief and repentance. The last
picture represented his return to his father: the good old
man, in the same night-cap and dressing-gown, runs forward to
meet him; the prodigal son falls on his knees; in
the distance the cook is killing the fatted calf, and
the elder brother is asking the servants the cause of
all the rejoicing. Under each picture I read some suitable
German verses. All this I have preserved in my memory
to the present day, as well as the little pots
of balsams, the bed with speckled curtains, and the other
objects with which I was then surrounded. I can see
at the present moment the host himself, a man of
about fifty years of age, fresh and strong, in his
long green surtout with three medals on faded ribbons.

I had scarcely settled my account with my old driver,
when Dounia returned with the tea-urn. The little coquette saw
at the second glance the impression she had produced upon
me; she lowered her large blue eyes; I began to
talk to her; she answered me without the least timidity,
like a girl who has seen the world. I offered
her father a glass of punch, to Dounia herself I
gave a cup of tea, and then the three of
us began to converse together, as if we were old
acquaintances.

The horses had long been ready, but I felt reluctant
to take leave of the Postmaster and his daughter. At
last I bade them good-bye, the father wished me a
pleasant journey, the daughter accompanied me to the telega. In
the vestibule I stopped and asked her permission to kiss
her; Dounia consented.... I can reckon up a great many
kisses since that time, but not one which has left
behind such a long, such a pleasant recollection.

Several years passed, and circumstances led me to the same
road, and to the same places.

"But," thought I, "perhaps the old Postmaster has been changed,
and Dounia may already be married."

The thought that one or the other of them might
be dead also flashed through my mind, and I approached
the station of A—— with a sad presentiment. The horses
drew up before the little post-house. On entering the room,
I immediately recognized the pictures illustrating the story of the
prodigal son. The table and the bed stood in the
same places as before, but the flowers were no longer
on the window-sills, and everything around indicated decay and neglect.

The Postmaster was asleep under his sheep-skin pelisse; my arrival
awoke him, and he rose up.... It was certainly Simeon
Virin, but how aged! While he was preparing to register
my travelling passport, I gazed at his grey hairs, the
deep wrinkles upon his face, that had not been shaved
for a long time, his bent back, and I was
astonished to see how three or four years had been
able to transform a strong and active individual into a
feeble old man.

"Do you recognize me?" I asked him: "we are old
acquaintances."

"May be," replied he mournfully; "this is a high road,
and many travellers have stopped here."

"Is your Dounia well?" I continued.

The old man frowned.

"God knows," he replied.

"Probably she is married?" said I.

The old man pretended not to have heard my question,
and went on reading my passport in a low tone.
I ceased questioning him and ordered some tea. Curiosity began
to torment me, and I hoped that the punch would
loosen the tongue of my old acquaintance.

I was not mistaken; the old man did not refuse
the proffered glass. I observed that the rum dispelled his
mournfulness. At the second glass he began to talk; he
remembered me, or appeared as if he remembered me, and
I heard from him a story, which at the time,
deeply interested and affected me.

"So you knew my Dounia?" he began. "But who did
not know her? Ah, Dounia, Dounia! What a girl she
was! Everybody who passed this way praised her; nobody had
a word to say against her. The ladies used to
give her presents—now a handkerchief, now a pair of earrings.
The gentlemen used to stop intentionally, as if to dine
or to take supper, but in reality only to take
a longer look at her. However angry a gentleman might
be, in her presence he grew calm and spoke graciously
to me. Would you believe it, sir: couriers and Court
messengers used to talk to her for half-hours at a
stretch. It was she who kept the house; she put
everything in order, got everything ready, and looked after everything.
And I, like an old fool, could not look at
her enough, could not idolize her enough. Did I not
love my Dounia? Did I not indulge my child? Was
not her life a happy one? But no, there is
no escaping misfortune: there is no evading what has been
decreed." Then he began to tell me his sorrow in
detail. Three years before, one winter evening, when the Postmaster
was ruling a new book, and his daughter behind the
partition was sewing a dress, a troika drove up, and
a traveller in a Circassian cap and military cloak, and
enveloped in a shawl, entered the room and demanded horses.
The horses were all out. On being told this, the
traveller raised his voice and whip; but Dounia, accustomed to
such scenes, ran out from behind the partition and graciously
inquired of the traveller whether he would not like something
to eat and drink.

The appearance of Dounia produced the usual effect. The traveller's
anger subsided; he consented to wait for horses, and ordered
supper. Having taken off his wet shaggy cap, and divested
himself of his shawl and cloak, the traveller was seen
to be a tall, young Hussar with a black moustache
He made himself comfortable with the Postmaster, and began to
converse in a pleasant manner with him and his daughter.
Supper was served. Meanwhile the horses returned, and the Postmaster
ordered them, without being fed, to be harnessed immediately to
the traveller kibitka. But on returning to the room, he
found the young man lying almost unconscious on the bench;
he had come over faint, his head ached, it was
impossible for him to continue his journey. What was to
be done? The Postmaster gave up his own bed to
him, and it was decided that if the sick man
did not get better, they would send next day to
C—— for the doctor.

The next day the Hussar was worse. His servant rode
to the town for the doctor. Dounia bound round his
head a handkerchief steeped in vinegar, and sat with her
needlework beside his bed. In the presence of the Postmaster,
the sick man sighed and scarcely uttered a word; but
he drank two cups of coffee, and, with a sigh,
ordered dinner. Dounia did not quit his side. He constantly
asked for something to drink, and Dounia gave him a
jug of lemonade prepared by herself. The sick man moistened
his lips, and each time, on returning the jug, he
feebly pressed Dounia's hand in token of gratitude.

About dinner time the doctor arrived. He felt the sick
man's pulse, spoke to him in German, and declared in
Russian that he only needed rest, and that in about
a couple of days he would be able to set
out on his journey. The Hussar gave him twenty-five roubles
for his visit, and invited him to dinner; the doctor
accepted the invitation. They both ate with a good appetite,
drank a bottle of wine, and separated very well satisfied
with each other.

Another day passed, and the Hussar felt quite himself again.
He was extraordinarily lively, joked unceasingly, now with Dounia, now
with the Postmaster, whistled tunes, chatted with the travellers, copied
their passports into the post-book, and so won upon the
worthy Postmaster, that when the third day arrived, it was
with regret that he parted with his amiable guest.

The day was Sunday; Dounia was preparing to go to
mass. The Hussar's kibitka stood ready. He took leave of
the Postmaster, after having generously recompensed him for his board
and lodging, bade farewell to Dounia, and offered to drive
her as far as the church, which was situated at
the end of the village. Dounia hesitated.

"What are you afraid of?" asked her father. "His Excellency
is not a wolf: he won't eat you. Drive with
him as far as the church."

Dounia seated herself in the kibitka by the side of
the Hussar, the servant sprang upon the box, the driver
whistled, and the horses started off at a gallop.

The poor Postmaster could not understand how he could have
allowed his Dounia to drive off with the Hussar, how
he could have been so blind, and what had become
of his senses at that moment. A half-hour had not
elapsed, before his heart began to grieve, and anxiety and
uneasiness took possession of him to such a degree, that
he could contain himself no longer, and started off for
mass himself. On reaching the church, he saw that the
people were already beginning to disperse, but Dounia was neither
in the churchyard nor in the porch. He hastened into
the church: the priest was leaving the altar, the clerk
was extinguishing the candles, two old women were still praying
in a corner, but Dounia was not in the church.
The poor father was scarcely able to summon up sufficient
resolution to ask the clerk if she had been to
mass. The clerk replied that she had not. The Postmaster
returned home neither alive nor dead. One hope alone remained
to him: Dounia, in the thoughtlessness of youth, might have
taken it into her head to go on as far
as the next station, where her godmother lived. In agonizing
agitation he awaited the return of the troika in which
he had let her set out. The driver did not
return. At last, in the evening, he arrived alone and
intoxicated, with the terrible news that Dounia had gone on
with the Hussar at the other station.

The old man could not bear his misfortune: he immediately
took to that very same bed where, the evening before,
the young deceiver had lain. Taking all the circumstances into
account, the Postmaster now came to the conclusion that the
illness had been a mere pretence. The poor man fell
ill with a violent fever; he was removed to C——,
and in his place another person was appointed for the
time being. The same doctor, who had attended the Hussar,
attended him also. He assured the Postmaster that the young
man had been perfectly well, and that at the time
of his visit he had suspected him of some evil
intention, but that he had kept silent through fear of
his whip. Whether the German spoke the truth or only
wished to boast of his perspicacity, his communication afforded no
consolation to the poor invalid. Scarcely had the latter recovered
from his illness, when he asked the Postmaster of C——
for two months' leave of absence, and without saying a
word to anybody of his intention, he set out on
foot in search of his daughter.

From the travelling passport he found out that Captain Minsky
was journeying from Smolensk to St. Petersburg. The yemshik[3] who
drove him, said that Dounia had wept the whole of
the way, although she seemed to go of her own
free will.

"Perhaps," thought the Postmaster, "I shall bring back home my
erring ewe-lamb."

With this thought he reached St. Petersburg, stopped at the
barracks of the Ismailovsky Regiment, in the quarters of a
retired non-commissioned officer, an old comrade of his, and then
began his search. He soon discovered that Captain Minsky was
in St. Petersburg, and was living at the Demoutoff Hotel.
The Postmaster resolved to call upon him.

Early in the morning he went to Minsky's ante-chamber, and
requested that His Excellency might be informed that an old
soldier wished to see him. The military servant, who was
cleaning a boot on a boot-tree, informed him that his
master was still asleep, and that he never received anybody
before eleven o'clock. The Postmaster retired and returned at the
appointed time. Minsky himself came out to him in his
dressing-gown and red skull-cap.

"Well, my friend, what do you want?" he asked.

The old man's heart began to boil, tears started to
his eyes, and he was only able to say in
a trembling voice:

"Your Excellency!... do me the divine favour!..."

Minsky glanced quickly at him, grew confused, took him by
the hand, led him into his cabinet and locked the
door.

"Your Excellency!" continued the old man: "what has fallen from
the load is lost; give me back at least my
poor Dounia. You have made her your plaything; do not
ruin her entirely."

"What is done cannot be undone," said the young man,
in the utmost confusion; "I am guilty before you, and
am ready to ask your pardon, but do not think
that I could forsake Dounia: she shall be happy, I
give you my word of honour. Why do you want
her? She loves me; she has become disused to her
former existence. Neither you nor she will forget what has
happened."

Then, pushing something up the old man's sleeve, he opened
the door, and the Postmaster, without remembering how, found himself
in the street again.

For a long time he stood immovable; at last he
observed in the cuff of his sleeve a roll of
papers; he drew them out and unrolled several fifty rouble
notes. Tears again filled his eyes, tears of indignation! He
crushed the notes into a ball, flung them upon the
ground, stamped upon them with the heel of his boot,
and then walked away.... After having gone a few steps,
he stopped, reflected, and returned ... but the notes were
no longer there. A well-dressed young man, observing him, ran
towards a droshky, jumped in hurriedly, and cried to the
driver: "Go on!"

The Postmaster did not pursue him. He resolved to return
home to his station, but before doing so he wished
to see his poor Dounia once more. For that purpose,
he returned to Minsky's lodgings a couple of days afterwards,
but the military servant told him roughly that his master
received nobody, pushed him out of the ante-chamber and slammed
the door in his face. The Postmaster stood waiting for
a long time, then he walked away.

That same day, in the evening, he was walking along
the Liteinaia, having been to a service at the Church
of the Afflicted. Suddenly a stylish droshky flew past him,
and the Postmaster recognized Minsky. The droshky stopped in front
of a three-storeyed house, close to the entrance, and the
Hussar ran up the steps. A happy thought flashed through
the mind of the Postmaster. He returned, and, approaching the
coachman:

"Whose horse is this, my friend?" asked he: "Doesn't it
belong to Minsky?"

"Exactly so," replied the coachman: "what do you want?"

"Well, your master ordered me to carry a letter to
his Dounia, and I have forgotten where his Dounia lives."

"She lives here, on the second floor. But you are
late with your letter, my friend; he is with her
himself just now."

"That doesn't matter," replied the Postmaster, with an inexplicable beating
of the heart. "Thanks for your information, but I shall
know how to manage my business." And with these words
he ascended the staircase.

The door was locked; he rang. There was a painful
delay of several seconds. The key rattled, and the door
was' opened.

"Does Avdotia Simeonovna live here?" he asked.

"Yes," replied a young female servant: "what do you want
with her?"

The Postmaster, without replying, walked into the room.

"You mustn't go in, you mustn't go in!" the servant
cried put after him: "Avdotia Simeonovna has visitor."

But the Postmaster, without heeding her, walked straight on. The
first two rooms were dark; in the third there was
a light. He approached the open door and paused. In
the room, which was beautifully furnished, sat Minsky in deep
thought. Dounia, attired in the most elegant fashion, was sitting
upon the arm of his chair, like a lady rider
upon her English saddle. She was gazing I tenderly at
Minsky, and winding his black curls round her sparkling fingers.
Poor Postmaster! Never had his daughter seemed to him so
beautiful; he admired her against his will.

"Who is there?" she asked, without raising her head.

He remained silent. Receiving no reply, Dounia raised her head....
and with a cry she fell upon the carpet. The
alarmed Minsky hastened to pick her up, but suddenly catching
sight of the old Postmaster in the doorway, he left
Dounia and approached him, trembling with rage.

"What do you want?" he said to him, clenching his
teeth. "Why do you steal after me everywhere, like a
thief? Or do you want to murder me? Be off!"
and with a powerful hand he seized the old man
by the collar and pushed him down the stairs.

The old man returned to his lodging. His friend advised
him to lodge a complaint, but the Postmaster reflected, waved
his hand, and resolved to abstain from taking any further
steps in the matter. Two days afterwards he left St.
Petersburg and returned to his station to resume his duties.

"This is the third year," he concluded, "that I have
been living without Dounia, and I have not heard a
word about her. Whether she is alive or not—God only
knows. So many things happen. She is not the first,
nor yet the last, that a travelling scoundrel has seduced,
kept for a little while, and then forsaken. There are
many such young fools in St. Petersburg, to-day in satin
and velvet, and to-morrow sweeping the streets along with the
wretched hangers-on of the dram-shops. Sometimes, when I think that
Dounia also may come to such an end, then, in
spite of myself, I sin and wish her in her
grave...."

Such was the story of my friend, the old Postmaster,
a story more than once interrupted by tears, which he
picturesquely wiped away with the skirt of his coat, like
the zealous Terentitch in Dmitrieff's beautiful ballad. These tears were
partly induced by the punch, of which he had drunk
five glasses during the course of his narrative, but for
all that, they produced a deep impression upon my heart
After taking leave of him, it was a long time
before I could forget the old Postmaster, and for a
long time I thought of poor Dounia....

Passing through the little town of a short time ago,
I remembered my friend. I heard that the station, over
which he ruled, had been abolished. To my question: "Is
the old Postmaster still alive?" nobody could give me a
satisfactory reply. I resolved to pay a visit to the
well-known place, and having hired horses, I set out for
the village of N——.

It was in the autumn. Grey clouds covered the sky;
a cold wind blew across the reaped fields, carrying along
with it the red and yellow leaves from the trees
that it encountered. I arrived in the village at sunset,
and stopped at the little post-house. In the vestibule (where
Dounia had once kissed me) a stout woman came out
to meet me, and in answer to my questions replied,
that the old Postmaster had been dead for about a
year, that his house was occupied by a brewer, and
that she was the brewer's wife. I began to regret
my useless journey, and the seven roubles that I had
spent in vain.

"Of what did he die?" I asked the brewer's wife.

"Of drink, little father," replied she.

"And where is he buried?"

"On the outskirts of the village, near his late wife."

"Could somebody take me to his grave?"

"To be sure! Hi, Vanka,[4] you have played with that
cat long enough. Take this gentleman to the cemetery, and
show him the Postmaster's grave."

At these words a ragged lad, with red hair, and
a cast in his eye, ran up to me and
immediately began to lead the way towards the burial-ground.

"Did you know the dead man?" I asked him on
the road.

"Did I not know him! He taught me how to
cut blowpipes. When he came out of the dram-shop (God
rest his soul!) we used to run after him and
call out: 'Grandfather! grandfather! some nuts!' and he used to
throw nuts to us. He always used to play with
us."

"And do the travellers remember him?"

"There are very few travellers now; the assessor passes this
way sometimes, but he doesn't trouble himself about dead people.
Last summer a lady passed through here, and she asked
after the old Postmaster, and went to his grave."

"What sort of a lady?" I asked with curiosity.

"A very beautiful lady," replied the lad. "She was in
a carriage with six horses, and had along with her
three little children, a nurse, and a little black dog;
and when they told her that the old Postmaster was
dead, she began to cry, and said to the children:
'Sit still, I will go to the cemetery.' I offered
to show her the way. But the lady said: 'I
know the way.' And she gave me a five-copeck piece....
such a kind lady!"

We reached the cemetery, a dreary place, not inclosed in
the least; it was sown with wooden crosses, but there
was not a single tree to throw a shade over
it. Never in my life had I seen such a
dismal cemetery.

"This is the old Postmaster's grave," said the lad to
me, leaping upon a heap of sand, in which was
planted a black cross with a copper image.

"And did the lady come here?" asked I.

"Yes," replied Vanka; "I watched her from a distance. She
lay down here, and remained lying down for a long
time. Then she went back to the village, sent for
the pope, gave him some money and drove off, after
giving me a five-copeck piece.... such an excellent lady!"

And I, too, gave the lad a five-copeck piece, and
I no longer regretted the journey nor the seven roubles
that I had spent on it.

FOOTNOTES

[1] The Chinnovniks, or official nobles of Russia, are divided
into fourteen classes, the fourteenth being the lowest. The members
of this latter class were formerly little removed from serfs.

[2] Diminutive of Avdotia.

[3] Driver.

[4] One of the many diminutives of Ivan.