On a certain morning in the spring of the year,
the three men who were known as the Three Black
Crows called at the office of "The President of the
Pacific and Oriental Flotation Company," situated in an obscure street
near San Francisco's water-front. They were Strokher, the tall, blond,
solemn, silent Englishman; Hardenberg, the American, dry of humour, shrewd,
resourceful, who bargained like a Vermonter and sailed a schooner
like a Gloucester cod-fisher; and in their company, as ever
inseparable from the other two, came the little colonial, nicknamed,
for occult reasons, "Ally Bazan," a small, wiry man, excitable,
vociferous, who was without fear, without guile and without money.

When Hardenberg, who was always spokesman for the Three Crows,
had sent in their names, they were admitted at once
to the inner office of the "President." The President was
an old man, bearded like a prophet, with a watery
blue eye and a forehead wrinkled like an orang's. He
spoke to the Three Crows in the manner of one
speaking to friends he has not seen in some time.

"Well, Mr. Ryder," began Hardenberg. "We called around to see
if you had anything fer us this morning. I don't
mind telling you that we're at liberty jus' now. Anything
doing?"

Ryder fingered his beard distressfully. "Very little, Joe; very little."

"Got any wrecks?"

"Not a wreck."

Hardenberg turned to a great map that hung on the
wall by Ryder's desk. It was marked in places by
red crosses, against which were written certain numbers and letters.
Hardenberg put his finger on a small island south of
the Marquesas group and demanded: "What might be H. 33,
Mr. President?"

"Pearl Island," answered the President. "Davidson is on that job."

"Or H. 125?" Hardenberg indicated a point in the Gilbert
group.

"Guano deposits. That's promised."

"Hallo! You're up in the Aleutians. I make out. 20
A.--what's that?"

"Old government telegraph wire--line abandoned--finest drawn-copper wire. I've had three
boys at that for months."

"What's 301? This here, off the Mexican coast?"

The President, unable to remember, turned to his one clerk:
"Hyers, what's 301? Isn't that Peterson?"

The clerk ran his finger down a column: "No, sir;
301 is the Whisky Ship."

"Ah! So it is. I remember. You remember, too, Joe.
Little schooner, the Tropic Bird--sixty days out from Callao--five hundred
cases of whisky aboard--sunk in squall. It was thirty years
ago. Think of five hundred cases of thirty-year-old whisky! There's
money in that if I can lay my hands on
the schooner. Suppose you try that, you boys--on a twenty
per cent. basis. Come now, what do you say?"

"Not for five per cent.," declared Hardenberg. "How'd we raise
her? How'd we know how deep she lies? Not for
Joe. What's the matter with landing arms down here in
Central America for Bocas and his gang?"

"I'm out o' that, Joe. Too much competition."

"What's doing here in Tahiti--No. 88? It ain't lettered."

Once more the President consulted his books.

"Ah!--88. Here we are. Cache o' illicit pearls. I had
it looked up. Nothing in it."

"Say, Cap'n!"--Hardenberg's eye had traveled to the upper edge of
the map--"whatever did you strike up here in Alaska? At
Point Barrow, s'elp me Bob! It's 48 B."

The President stirred uneasily in his place. "Well, I ain't
quite worked that scheme out, Joe. But I smell the
deal. There's a Russian post along there some'eres. Where they
catch sea-otters. And the skins o' sea-otters are selling this
very day for seventy dollars at any port in China."

"I s'y," piped up Ally Bazan, "I knows a bit
about that gyme. They's a bally kind o' Lum-tums among
them Chinese as sports those syme skins on their bally
clothes--as a mark o' rank, d'ye see."

"Have you figured at all on the proposition, Cap'n?" inquired
Hardenberg.

"There's risk in it, Joe; big risk," declared the President
nervously. "But I'd only ask fifteen per cent."

"You have worked out the scheme, then."

"Well--ah--y'see, there's the risk, and--ah--" Suddenly Ryder leaned forward, his
watery blue eyes glinting: "Boys, it's a jewel. It's just
your kind. I'd a-sent for you, to try on this
very scheme, if you hadn't shown up. You kin have
the Bertha Millner--I've a year's charter o' her from Wilbur--and
I'll only ask you fifteen per cent. of the net
profits--net, mind you."

"I ain't buyin' no dead horse, Cap'n," returned Hardenberg, "but
I'll say this: we pay no fifteen per cent."

"Banks and the Ruggles were daft to try it and
give me twenty-five."

"An' where would Banks land the scheme? I know him.
You put him on that German cipher-code job down Honolulu
way, an' it cost you about a thousand before you
could pull out. We'll give you seven an' a half."

"Ten," declared Ryder, "ten, Joe, at the very least. Why,
how much do you suppose just the stores would cost
me? And Point Barrow--why, Joe, that's right up in the
Arctic. I got to run the risk o' you getting
the Bertha smashed in the ice."

"What do we risk?" retorted Hardenberg; and it was the
monosyllabic Strokher who gave the answer:

"Chokee, by Jove!"

"Ten is fair. It's ten or nothing," answered Hardenberg.

"Gross, then, Joe. Ten on the gross--or I give the
job to the Ruggles and Banks."

"Who's your bloomin' agent?" put in Ally Bazan.

"Nickerson. I sent him with Peterson on that Mary Archer
wreck scheme. An' you know what Peterson says of him--didn't
give him no trouble at all. One o' my best
men, boys."

"There have been," observed Strokher stolidly, "certain stories told about
Nickerson. Not that I wish to seem suspicious, but I
put it to you as man to man."

"Ay," exclaimed Ally Bazan. "He was fair nutty once, they
tell me. Threw some kind o' bally fit an' come
aout all skew-jee'd in his mind. Forgot his nyme an'
all. I s'y, how abaout him, anyw'y?"

"Boys," said Ryder, "I'll tell you. Nickerson--yes, I know the
yarns about him. It was this way--y'see, I ain't keeping
anything from you, boys. Two years ago he was a
Methody preacher in Santa Clara. Well, he was what they
call a revivalist, and he was holding forth one blazin'
hot day out in the sun when all to once
he goes down, flat, an' don't come round for the
better part o' two days. When he wakes up he's
another person; he'd forgot his name, forgot his job, forgot
the whole blamed shooting-match. And he ain't never remembered them
since. The doctors have names for that kind o' thing.
It seems it does happen now and again. Well, he
turned to an' began sailoring first off--soon as the hospitals
and medicos were done with him--an' him not having any
friends as you might say, he was let go his
own gait. He got to be third mate of some
kind o' dough-dish down Mexico way; and then I got
hold o' him an' took him into the Comp'ny. He's
been with me ever since. He ain't got the faintest
kind o' recollection o' his Methody days, an' believes he's
always been a sailorman. Well, that's his business, ain't it?
If he takes my orders an' walks chalk, what do
I care about his Methody game? There, boys, is the
origin, history and development of Slick Dick Nickerson. If you
take up this sea-otter deal and go to Point Barrow,
naturally Nick has got to go as owner's agent and
representative of the Comp'ny. But I couldn't send a easier
fellow to get along with. Honest, now, I couldn't. Boys,
you think over the proposition between now and tomorrow an'
then come around and let me know."

And the upshot of the whole matter was that one
month later the Bertha Millner, with Nickerson, Hardenberg, Strokher and
Ally Bazan on board, cleared from San Francisco, bound--the papers
were beautifully precise--for Seattle and Tacoma with a cargo of
general merchandise.

As a matter of fact, the bulk of her cargo
consisted of some odd hundreds of very fine lumps of
rock--which as ballast is cheap by the ton--and some odd
dozen cases of conspicuously labeled champagne.

The Pacific and Oriental Flotation Company made this champagne out
of Rhine wine, effervescent salts, raisins, rock candy and alcohol.
It was from the same stock of wine of which
Ryder had sold some thousand cases to the Coreans the
year before.

II

"Not that I care a curse," said Strokher, the Englishman.
"But I put it to you squarely that this voyage
lacks that certain indescribable charm."

The Bertha Millner was a fortnight out, and the four
adventurers--or, rather, the three adventurers and Nickerson--were lame in every
joint, red-eyed from lack of sleep, half-starved, wholly wet and
unequivocally disgusted. They had had heavy weather from the day
they bade farewell to the whistling buoy off San Francisco
Bay until the moment when even patient, docile, taciturn Strokher
had at last--in his own fashion--rebelled.

"Ain't I a dam' fool? Ain't I a proper lot?
Gard strike me if I don't chuck fer fair after
this. Wot'd I come to sea fer--an' this 'ere go
is the worst I ever knew--a baoat no bigger'n a
bally bath-tub, head seas, livin' gyles the clock 'round, wet
food, wet clothes, wet bunks. Caold till, by cricky! I've
lost the feel o' mee feet. An' wat for? For
the bloomin' good chanst o' a slug in mee guts.
That's wat for." At little intervals the little vociferous colonial,
Ally Bazan--he was red-haired and speckled--capered with rage, shaking his
fists.

But Hardenberg only shifted his cigar to the other corner
of his mouth. He knew Ally Bazan, and knew that
the little fellow would have jeered at the offer of
a first-cabin passage back to San Francisco in the swiftest,
surest, steadiest passenger steamer that ever wore paint. So he
remarked: "I ain't ever billed this promenade as a Coney
Island picnic, I guess."

Nickerson--Slick Dick, the supercargo--was all that Hardenberg, who captained the
schooner, could expect. He never interfered, never questioned; never protested
in the name or interests of the Company when Hardenberg
"hung on" in the bleak, bitter squalls till the Bertha
was rail under and the sails hard as iron.

If it was true that he had once been a
Methody revivalist no one, to quote Alia Bazan, "could a'
smelled it off'n him." He was a black-bearded, scrawling six-footer,
with a voice like a steam siren and a fist
like a sledge. He carried two revolvers, spoke of the
Russians at Point Barrow as the "Boomskys," and boasted if
it came to that he'd engage to account for two
of them, would shove their heads into their boot-legs and
give them the running scrag, by God so he would!

Slowly, laboriously, beset in blinding fogs, swept with, icy rains,
buffeted and mauled and man-handled by the unending assaults of
the sea, the Bertha Millner worked her way northward up
that iron coast--till suddenly she entered an elysium.

Overnight she seemed to have run into it: it was
a world of green, wooded islands, of smooth channels, of
warm and steady winds, of cloudless skies. Coming on deck
upon the morning of the Bertha's first day in this
new region, Ally Bazan gazed open-mouthed. Then: "I s'y!" he
yelled. "Hey! By crickey! Look!" He slapped his thighs. "S'trewth!
This is 'eavenly."

Strokher was smoking his pipe on the hatch combings. "Rather,"
he observed. "An' I put it to you--we've deserved it."

In the main, however, the northward flitting was uneventful. Every
fifth day Nickerson got drunk--on the Company's Corean champagne. Now
that the weather had sweetened, the Three Black Crows had
less to do in the way of handling and nursing
the schooner. Their plans when the "Boomskys" should be reached
were rehearsed over and over again. Then came spells of
card and checker playing, story-telling, or hours of silent inertia
when, man fashion, they brooded over pipes in a patch
of sun, somnolent, the mind empty of all thought.

But at length the air took on a keener tang;
there was a bite to the breeze, the sun lost
his savour and the light of him lengthened till Hardenberg
could read off logarithms at ten in the evening. Great-coats
and sweaters were had from the chests, and it was
no man's work to reef when the wind came down
from out the north.

Each day now the schooner was drawing nearer the Arctic
Circle. At length snow fell, and two days later they
saw their first iceberg.

Hardenberg worked out their position on the chart and bore
to the eastward till he made out the Alaskan coast--a
smudge on the horizon. For another week he kept this
in sight, the schooner dodging the bergs that by now
drove by in squadrons, and even bumping and butling through
drift and slush ice.

Seals were plentiful, and Hardenberg and Strokher promptly revived the
quarrel of their respective nations. Once even they slew a
mammoth bull walrus--astray from some northern herd--and played poker for
the tusks. Then suddenly they pulled themselves sharply together, and,
as it were, stood "attention."

For more than a week the schooner, following the trend
of the far-distant coast, had headed eastward, and now at
length, looming out of the snow and out of the
mist, a somber bulwark, black, vast, ominous, rose the scarps
and crags of that which they came so far to
see--Point Barrow.

Hardenberg rounded the point, ran in under the lee of
the land and brought out the chart which Ryder had
given him. Then he shortened sail and moved west again
till Barrow was "hull down" behind him. To the north
was the Arctic, treacherous, nursing hurricanes, ice-sheathed; but close aboard,
not a quarter of a mile off his counter, stretched
a gray and gloomy land, barren, bleak as a dead
planet, inhospitable as the moon.

For three days they crawled along the edge keeping their
glasses trained upon every bay, every inlet. Then at length,
early one morning, Ally Bazan, who had been posted at
the bows, came scrambling aft to Hardenberg at the wheel.
He was gasping for breath in his excitement.

"Hi! There we are," he shouted. "O Lord! Oh, I
s'y! Now we're in fer it. That's them! That's them!
By the great jumpin' jimminy Christmas, that's them fer fair!
Strike me blind for a bleedin' gutter-cat if it eyent.
O Lord! S'y, I gotta to get drunk. S'y, what-all's
the first jump in the bally game now?"

"Well, the first thing, little man," observed Hardenberg, "is for
your mother's son to hang the monkey onto the safety-valve.
Keep y'r steam and watch y'r uncle."

"Scrag the Boomskys," said Slick Dick encouragingly.

Strokher pulled the left end of his viking mustache with
the fingers of his right hand.

"We must now talk," he said.

A last conference was held in the cabin, and the
various parts of the comedy rehearsed. Also the three looked
to their revolvers.

"Not that I expect a rupture of diplomatic relations," commented
Strokher; "but if there's any shooting done, as between man
and man, I choose to do it."

"All understood, then?" asked Hardenberg, looking from face to face.
"There won't be no chance to ask questions once we
set foot ashore."

The others nodded.

It was not difficult to get in with the seven
Russian sea-otter fishermen at the post. Certain of them spoke
a macerated English, and through these Hardenberg, Ally Bazan and
Nickerson--Strokher remained on board to look after the schooner--told to
the "Boomskys" a lamentable tale of the reported wreck of
a vessel, described by Hardenberg, with laborious precision, as a
steam whaler from San Francisco--the Tiber by name, bark-rigged, seven
hundred tons burden, Captain Henry Ward Beecher, mate Mr. James
Boss Tweed. They, the visitors, were the officers of the
relief-ship on the lookout for castaways and survivors.

But in the course of these preliminaries it became necessary
to restrain Nickerson--not yet wholly recovered from a recent incursion
into the store of Corean champagne. It presented itself to
his consideration as facetious to indulge (when speaking to the
Russians) in strange and elaborate distortions of speech.

"And she sunk-avitch in a hundred fathom o' water-owski."

"--All on board-erewski."

"--hell of dam' bad storm-onavna."

And he persisted in the idiocy till Hardenberg found an
excuse for taking him aside and cursing him into a
realization of his position.

In the end--inevitably--the schooner's company were invited to dine at
the post.

It was a strange affair--a strange scene. The coast, flat,
gray, dreary beyond all power of expression, lonesome as the
interstellar space, and quite as cold, and in all that
limitless vastness of the World's Edge, two specks--the hut, its
three windows streaming with light, and the tiny schooner rocking
in the offing. Over all flared the pallid incandescence of
the auroras.

The Company drank steadily, and Strokher, listening from the schooner's
quarterdeck, heard the shouting and the songs faintly above the
wash and lapping under the counter. Two hours had passed
since the moment he guessed that the feast had been
laid. A third went by. He grew uneasy. There was
no cessation of the noise of carousing. He even fancied
he heard pistol shots. Then after a long time the
noise by degrees wore down; a long silence followed. The
hut seemed deserted; nothing stirred; another hour went by.

Then at length Strokher saw a figure emerge from the
door of the hut and come down to the shore.
It was Hardenberg. Strokher saw him wave his arm slowly,
now to the left, now to the right, and he
took down the wig-wag as follows: "Stand--in--closer--we--have--the--skins."

III

During the course of the next few days Strokher heard
the different versions of the affair in the hut over
and over again till he knew its smallest details. He
learned how the "Boomskys" fell upon Ryder's champagne like wolves
upon a wounded buck, how they drank it from "enameled-ware"
coffee-cups, from tin dippers, from the bottles themselves; how at
last they even dispensed with the tedium of removing the
corks and knocked off the heads against the table-ledge and
drank from the splintered bottoms; how they quarreled over the
lees and dregs, how ever and always fresh supplies were
forthcoming, and how at last Hardenberg, Ally Bazan and Slick
Dick stood up from the table in the midst of
the seven inert bodies; how they ransacked the place for
the priceless furs; how they failed to locate them; how
the conviction grew that this was the wrong place after
all, and how at length Hardenberg discovered the trap-door that
admitted to the cellar, where in the dim light of
the uplifted lanterns they saw, corded in tiny bales and
packages, the costliest furs known to commerce.

Ally Bazan had sobbed in his excitement over that vision
and did not regain the power of articulate speech till
the "loot" was safely stowed in the 'tween-decks and Hardenberg
had given order to come about.

"Now," he had observed dryly, "now, lads, it's Hongkong--or bust."

The tackle had fouled aloft and the jib hung slatting
over the sprit like a collapsed balloon.

"Cast off up there, Nick!" called Hardenberg from the wheel.

Nickerson swung himself into the rigging, crying out in a
mincing voice as, holding to a rope's end, he swung
around to face the receding hut: "By-bye-skevitch. We've had such
a charming evening. Do hope-sky we'll be able to come
again-off." And as he spoke the lurch of the Bertha
twitched his grip from the rope. He fell some thirty
feet to the deck, and his head carromed against an
iron cleat with a resounding crack.

"Here's luck," observed Hardenberg, twelve hours later, when Slick Dick,
sitting on the edge of his bunk, looked stolidly and
with fishy eyes from face to face. "We wa'n't quite
short-handed enough, it seems."

"Dotty for fair. Dotty for fair," exclaimed Ally Bazan; "clean
off 'is nut. I s'y, Dick-ol'-chap, wyke-up, naow. Buck up.
Buck up. 'Ave a drink."

But Nickerson could only nod his head and murmur: "A
few more--consequently--and a good light----" Then his voice died down
to unintelligible murmurs.

"We'll have to call at Juneau," decided Hardenberg two days
later. "I don't figure on navigating this 'ere bath-tub to
no Hongkong whatsoever, with three hands. We gotta pick up
a couple o' A.B.'s in Juneau, if so be we
can."

"How about the loot?" objected Strokher. "If one of those
hands gets between decks he might smell--a sea-otter, now. I
put it to you he might."

"My son," said Hardenberg, "I've handled A.B.'s before;" and that
settled the question.

During the first part of the run down, Nickerson gloomed
silently over the schooner, looking curiously about him, now at
his comrades' faces, now at the tumbling gray-green seas, now--and
this by the hour--at his own hands. He seemed perplexed,
dazed, trying very hard to get his bearings. But by
and by he appeared, little by little, to come to
himself. One day he pointed to the rigging with an
unsteady forefinger, then, laying the same finger doubtfully upon his
lips, said to Strokher: "A ship?"

"Quite so, quite so, me boy."

"Yes," muttered Nickerson absently, "a ship--of course."

Hardenberg expected to make Juneau on a Thursday. Wednesday afternoon
Slick Dick came to him. He seemed never more master
of himself. "How did I come aboard?" he asked.

Hardenberg explained.

"What have we been doing?"

"Why, don't you remember?" continued Hardenberg. He outlined the voyage
in detail. "Then you remember," he went on, "we got
up there to Point Barrow and found where the Russian
fellows had their post, where they caught sea-otters, and we
went ashore and got 'em all full and lifted all
the skins they had----"

"'Lifted'? You mean stole them."

"Come here," said the other. Encouraged by Nickerson's apparent convalescence,
Hardenberg decided that the concrete evidence of things done would
prove effective. He led him down into the 'tween-decks. "See
now," he said. "See this packing-case"--he pried up a board--"see
these 'ere skins. Take one in y'r hand. Remember how
we found 'em all in the cellar and hyked 'em
out while the beggars slept?"

"Stole them? You say we got--that is you did--got somebody
intoxicated and stole their property, and now you are on
your way to dispose of it."

"Oh, well, if you want to put it thataway. Sure
we did."

"I understand----Well----Let's go back on deck. I want to think
this out."

The Bertha Millner crept into the harbour of Juneau in
a fog, with ships' bells tolling on every side, let
go her anchor at last in desperation and lay up
to wait for the lifting. When this came the Three
Crows looked at one another wide-eyed. They made out the
drenched town and the dripping hills behind it. The quays,
the custom house, the one hotel, and the few ships
in the harbour. There were a couple of whalers from
'Frisco, a white, showily painted passenger boat from the same
port, a Norwegian bark, and a freighter from Seattle grimy
with coal-dust. These, however, the Bertha's company ignored. Another boat
claimed all their attention. In the fog they had let
go not a pistol-shot from her anchorage. She lay practically
beside them. She was the United States revenue cutter Bear.

"But so long as they can't smell sea-otter skin," remarked
Hardenberg, "I don't know that we're any the worse."

"All the syme," observed Ally Bazan, "I don't want to
lose no bloomin' tyme a-pecking up aour bloomin' A.B.'s."

"I'll stay aboard and tend the baby," said Hardenberg with
a wink. "You two move along ashore and get what
you can--Scoovies for choice. Take Slick Dick with you. I
reckon a change o' air might buck him up."

When the three had gone, Hardenberg, after writing up the
painfully doctored log, set to work to finish a task
on which the adventurers had been engaged in their leisure
moments since leaving Point Barrow. This was the counting and
sorting of the skins. The packing-case had been broken open,
and the scanty but precious contents littered an improvised table
in the hold. Pen in hand, Hardenberg counted and ciphered
and counted again. He could not forbear a chuckle when
the net result was reached. The lot of the skins--the
pelt of the sea-otter is ridiculously small in proportion to
its value--was no heavy load for the average man. But
Hardenberg knew that once the "loot" was safely landed at
the Hongkong pierhead the Three Crows would share between them
close upon ten thousand dollars. Even--if they had luck, and
could dispose of the skins singly or in small lots--that
figure might be doubled.

"And I call it a neat turn," observed Hardenberg. He
was aroused by the noise of hurried feet upon the
deck, and there was that in their sound that brought
him upright in a second, hand on hip. Then, after
a second, he jumped out on deck to meet Ally
Bazan and Strokher, who had just scrambled over the rail.

"Bust. B-u-s-t!" remarked the Englishman.

"'Ere's 'ell to pay," cried Ally Bazan in a hoarse
whisper, glancing over at the revenue cutter.

"Where's Nickerson?" demanded Hardenberg.

"That's it," answered the colonial. "That's where it's 'ell. Listen
naow. He goes ashore along o' us, quiet and peaceable
like, never battin' a eye, we givin' him a bit
o' jolly, y' know, to keep him chirked up as
ye might s'y. But so soon as ever he sets
foot on shore, abaout faice he gaoes, plumb into the
Custom's orfice. I s'ys, 'Wot all naow, messmite? Come along
aout o' that.' But he turns on me like a
bloomin' babby an s'ys he: 'Hands orf, wretch!' Ay, them's
just his words. Just like that, 'Hands orf, wretch!' And
then he nips into the orfice an' marches fair up
to the desk an' sy's like this--we heerd him, havin'
followed on to the door--he s'ys, just like this:

"'Orfficer, I am a min'ster o' the gospel, o' the
Methodis' denomineye-tion, an' I'm deteyined agin my will along o'
a pirate ship which has robbed certain parties o' val-able
goods. Which syme I'm pre-pared to attest afore a no'try
publick, an' lodge informeye-tion o' crime. An',' s'ys he, 'I
demand the protection o' the authorities an' arsk to be
directed to the American consul.'

"S'y, we never wyted to hear no more, but hyked
awye hot foot. S'y, wot all now. Oh, mee Gord!
eyen't it a rum gao for fair? S'y, let's get
aout o' here, Hardy, dear."

"Look there," said Hardenberg, jerking his head toward the cutter,
"how far'd we get before the customs would 'a' passed
the tip to her and she'd started to overhaul us?
That's what they feed her for--to round up the likes
o' us."

"We got to do something rather soon," put in Strokher.
"Here comes the custom house dinghy now."

As a matter of fact, a boat was putting off
from the dock. At her stern fluttered the custom house
flag.

"Bitched--bitched for fair!" cried Ally Bazan.

"Quick, now!" exclaimed Hardenberg. "On the jump! Overboard with that
loot!--or no. Steady! That won't do. There's that dam' cutter.
They'd see it go. Here!--into the galley. There's a fire
in the stove. Get a move on!"

"Wot!" wailed Ally Bazan. "Burn the little joker. Gord, I
can't, Hardy, I can't. It's agin human nature."

"You can do time in San Quentin, then, for felony,"
retorted Strokher as he and Hardenberg dashed by him, their
arms full of the skins. "You can do time in
San Quentin else. Make your choice. I put it to
you as between man and man."

With set teeth, and ever and again glancing over the
rail at the oncoming boat, the two fed their fortune
to the fire. The pelts, partially cured and still fatty,
blazed like crude oil, the hair crisping, the hides melting
into rivulets of grease. For a minute the schooner reeked
of the smell and a stifling smoke poured from the
galley stack. Then the embers of the fire guttered and
a long whiff of sea wind blew away the reek.
A single skin, fallen in the scramble, still remained on
the floor of the galley. Hardenberg snatched it up, tossed
it into the flames and clapped the door to. "Now,
let him squeal," he declared. "You fellows, when that boat
gets here, let me talk; keep your mouths shut or,
by God, we'll all wear stripes."

The Three Crows watched the boat's approach in a silence
broken only once by a long whimper from Ally Bazan.
"An' it was a-workin' out as lovely as Billy-oh," he
said, "till that syme underbred costermonger's swipe remembered he was
Methody--an' him who, only a few d'ys back, went raound
s'yin' 'scrag the "Boomskys"!' A couple o' thousand pounds gone
as quick as look at it. Oh, I eyn't never
goin' to git over this."

The boat came up and the Three Crows were puzzled
to note that no brass-buttoned personage sat in the stern-sheets,
no harbour police glowered at them from the bow, no
officer of the law fixed them with the eye of
suspicion. The boat was manned only by a couple of
freight-handlers in woolen Jerseys, upon the breasts of which were
affixed the two letters "C.H."

"Say," called one of the freight-handlers, "is this the Bertha
Millner?"

"Yes," answered Hardenberg, his voice at a growl. "An' what
might you want with her, my friend?"

"Well, look here," said the other, "one of your hands
came ashore mad as a coot and broke into the
house of the American Consul, and resisted arrest and raised
hell generally. The inspector says you got to send a
provost guard or something ashore to take him off. There's
been several mix-ups among ships' crews lately and the town----"

The tide drifted the boat out of hearing, and Hardenberg
sat down on the capstan head, turning his back to
his comrades. There was a long silence. Then he said:

"Boys, let's go home. I--I want to have a talk
with President Ryder."