(1855)In the year 1799, Captain Amasa Delano, of Duxbury, in
Massachusetts,commanding a large sealer and general trader, lay at anchor
with avaluable cargo, in the harbor of St. Maria--a small,
desert, uninhabitedisland toward the southern extremity of the long coast
of Chili. Therehe had touched for water.

On the second day, not long after dawn, while lying
in his berth, hismate came below, informing him that a
strange sail was coming into thebay. Ships were then not
so plenty in those waters as now. He rose,dressed, and
went on deck.

The morning was one peculiar to that coast. Everything was
mute andcalm; everything gray. The sea, though undulated into long
roods ofswells, seemed fixed, and was sleeked at the surface
like waved leadthat has cooled and set in the smelter's
mould. The sky seemed a graysurtout. Flights of troubled gray
fowl, kith and kin with flights oftroubled gray vapors among
which they were mixed, skimmed low andfitfully over the waters,
as swallows over meadows before storms.Shadows present, foreshadowing deeper shadows
to come.

To Captain Delano's surprise, the stranger, viewed through the glass,showed
no colors; though to do so upon entering a haven,
howeveruninhabited in its shores, where but a single other ship
might be lying,was the custom among peaceful seamen of all
nations. Considering thelawlessness and loneliness of the spot, and the
sort of stories, at thatday, associated with those seas, Captain
Delano's surprise might havedeepened into some uneasiness had he not
been a person of a singularlyundistrustful good-nature, not liable, except
on extraordinary andrepeated incentives, and hardly then, to indulge in
personal alarms, anyway involving the imputation of malign evil in
man. Whether, in view ofwhat humanity is capable, such a
trait implies, along with a benevolentheart, more than ordinary quickness
and accuracy of intellectualperception, may be left to the wise
to determine.

But whatever misgivings might have obtruded on first seeing thestranger,
would almost, in any seaman's mind, have been dissipated byobserving
that, the ship, in navigating into the harbor, was drawing
toonear the land; a sunken reef making out off her
bow. This seemed toprove her a stranger, indeed, not only
to the sealer, but the island;consequently, she could be no
wonted freebooter on that ocean. With nosmall interest, Captain Delano
continued to watch her--a proceeding notmuch facilitated by the vapors
partly mantling the hull, through whichthe far matin light from
her cabin streamed equivocally enough; muchlike the sun--by this time
hemisphered on the rim of the horizon, and,apparently, in company
with the strange ship entering the harbor--which,wimpled by the same
low, creeping clouds, showed not unlike a Limaintriguante's one sinister
eye peering across the Plaza from the Indianloop-hole of her
dusk saya-y-manta.

It might have been but a deception of the vapors,
but, the longer thestranger was watched the more singular appeared
her manoeuvres. Erelong it seemed hard to decide whether she
meant to come in or no--whatshe wanted, or what she
was about. The wind, which had breezed up alittle during
the night, was now extremely light and baffling, which themore
increased the apparent uncertainty of her movements. Surmising, atlast, that
it might be a ship in distress, Captain Delano ordered
hiswhale-boat to be dropped, and, much to the wary opposition
of his mate,prepared to board her, and, at the least,
pilot her in. On the nightprevious, a fishing-party of the
seamen had gone a long distance to somedetached rocks out
of sight from the sealer, and, an hour or two
beforedaybreak, had returned, having met with no small success. Presuming
thatthe stranger might have been long off soundings, the good
captain putseveral baskets of the fish, for presents, into his
boat, and so pulledaway. From her continuing too near the
sunken reef, deeming her indanger, calling to his men, he
made all haste to apprise those on boardof their situation.
But, some time ere the boat came up, the wind,
lightthough it was, having shifted, had headed the vessel off,
as well aspartly broken the vapors from about her.

Upon gaining a less remote view, the ship, when made
signally visible onthe verge of the leaden-hued swells, with the
shreds of fog here andthere raggedly furring her, appeared like
a white-washed monastery aftera thunder-storm, seen perched upon some dun
cliff among the Pyrenees.But it was no purely fanciful resemblance
which now, for a moment,almost led Captain Delano to think
that nothing less than a ship-load ofmonks was before him.
Peering over the bulwarks were what really seemed,in the hazy
distance, throngs of dark cowls; while, fitfully revealedthrough the open
port-holes, other dark moving figures were dimlydescried, as of Black
Friars pacing the cloisters.

Upon a still nigher approach, this appearance was modified, and
the truecharacter of the vessel was plain--a Spanish merchantman of
the firstclass, carrying negro slaves, amongst other valuable freight, from
onecolonial port to another. A very large, and, in its
time, a very finevessel, such as in those days were
at intervals encountered along thatmain; sometimes superseded Acapulco treasure-ships, or
retired frigatesof the Spanish king's navy, which, like superannuated Italian
palaces,still, under a decline of masters, preserved signs of former
state.

As the whale-boat drew more and more nigh, the cause
of the peculiarpipe-clayed aspect of the stranger was seen in
the slovenly neglectpervading her. The spars, ropes, and great part
of the bulwarks, lookedwoolly, from long unacquaintance with the scraper,
tar, and the brush.Her keel seemed laid, her ribs put
together, and she launched, fromEzekiel's Valley of Dry Bones.

In the present business in which she was engaged, the
ship's generalmodel and rig appeared to have undergone no material
change from theiroriginal warlike and Froissart pattern. However, no guns
were seen.

The tops were large, and were railed about with what
had once beenoctagonal net-work, all now in sad disrepair. These
tops hung overheadlike three ruinous aviaries, in one of which
was seen, perched, on aratlin, a white noddy, a strange
fowl, so called from its lethargic,somnambulistic character, being frequently caught
by hand at sea.Battered and mouldy, the castellated forecastle seemed
some ancientturret, long ago taken by assault, and then left
to decay. Toward thestern, two high-raised quarter galleries--the balustrades here
and therecovered with dry, tindery sea-moss--opening out from the unoccupiedstate-cabin,
whose dead-lights, for all the mild weather, werehermetically closed and
calked--these tenantless balconies hung over thesea as if it were
the grand Venetian canal. But the principal relic offaded grandeur
was the ample oval of the shield-like stern-piece,intricately carved with
the arms of Castile and Leon, medallioned aboutby groups of
mythological or symbolical devices; uppermost and centralof which was a
dark satyr in a mask, holding his foot on the
prostrateneck of a writhing figure, likewise masked.

Whether the ship had a figure-head, or only a plain
beak, was not quitecertain, owing to canvas wrapped about that
part, either to protect itwhile undergoing a re-furbishing, or else
decently to hide its decay.Rudely painted or chalked, as in
a sailor freak, along the forward sideof a sort of
pedestal below the canvas, was the sentence, "_Seguidvuestro jefe_" (follow
your leader); while upon the tarnishedheadboards, near by, appeared, in
stately capitals, once gilt, theship's name, "SAN DOMINICK," each letter
streakingly corroded withtricklings of copper-spike rust; while, like mourning weeds,
darkfestoons of sea-grass slimily swept to and fro over the
name, with everyhearse-like roll of the hull.

As, at last, the boat was hooked from the bow
along toward the gangwayamidship, its keel, while yet some inches
separated from the hull,harshly grated as on a sunken coral
reef. It proved a huge bunch ofconglobated barnacles adhering below
the water to the side like a wen--atoken of baffling
airs and long calms passed somewhere in those seas.

Climbing the side, the visitor was at once surrounded by
a clamorousthrong of whites and blacks, but the latter outnumbering
the former morethan could have been expected, negro transportation-ship as
the strangerin port was. But, in one language, and as
with one voice, all poured outa common tale of suffering;
in which the negresses, of whom there werenot a few,
exceeded the others in their dolorous vehemence. The scurvy,together with
the fever, had swept off a great part of their
number,more especially the Spaniards. Off Cape Horn they had narrowly
escapedshipwreck; then, for days together, they had lain tranced without
wind;their provisions were low; their water next to none; their
lips thatmoment were baked.

While Captain Delano was thus made the mark of all
eager tongues, hisone eager glance took in all faces, with
every other object about him.

Always upon first boarding a large and populous ship at
sea, especiallya foreign one, with a nondescript crew such as
Lascars or Manilla men,the impression varies in a peculiar way
from that produced by firstentering a strange house with strange
inmates in a strange land. Bothhouse and ship--the one by
its walls and blinds, the other by its highbulwarks like
ramparts--hoard from view their interiors till the lastmoment: but in
the case of the ship there is this addition; that
theliving spectacle it contains, upon its sudden and complete disclosure,has,
in contrast with the blank ocean which zones it, something
of theeffect of enchantment. The ship seems unreal; these strange
costumes,gestures, and faces, but a shadowy tableau just emerged from
the deep,which directly must receive back what it gave.

Perhaps it was some such influence, as above is attempted
to bedescribed, which, in Captain Delano's mind, heightened whatever, upon
astaid scrutiny, might have seemed unusual; especially the conspicuousfigures of
four elderly grizzled negroes, their heads like black,doddered willow tops,
who, in venerable contrast to the tumult belowthem, were couched,
sphynx-like, one on the starboard cat-head, anotheron the larboard, and
the remaining pair face to face on the oppositebulwarks above
the main-chains. They each had bits of unstranded oldjunk in
their hands, and, with a sort of stoical self-content, werepicking
the junk into oakum, a small heap of which lay
by their sides.They accompanied the task with a continuous, low,
monotonous, chant;droning and drilling away like so many gray-headed bag-pipers
playing afuneral march.

The quarter-deck rose into an ample elevated poop, upon the
forwardverge of which, lifted, like the oakum-pickers, some eight feet
abovethe general throng, sat along in a row, separated by
regular spaces, thecross-legged figures of six other blacks; each with
a rusty hatchet inhis hand, which, with a bit of
brick and a rag, he was engaged like ascullion in
scouring; while between each two was a small stack ofhatchets,
their rusted edges turned forward awaiting a like operation.Though occasionally
the four oakum-pickers would briefly address someperson or persons in
the crowd below, yet the six hatchet-polishersneither spoke to others,
nor breathed a whisper among themselves, butsat intent upon their
task, except at intervals, when, with the peculiarlove in negroes
of uniting industry with pastime, two and two theysideways clashed
their hatchets together,' like cymbals, with abarbarous din. All six,
unlike the generality, had the raw aspect ofunsophisticated Africans.

But that first comprehensive glance which took in those ten
figures,with scores less conspicuous, rested but an instant upon them,
as,impatient of the hubbub of voices, the visitor turned in
quest ofwhomsoever it might be that commanded the ship.

But as if not unwilling to let nature make known
her own case among hissuffering charge, or else in despair
of restraining it for the time, theSpanish captain, a gentlemanly,
reserved-looking, and rather young manto a stranger's eye, dressed with
singular richness, but bearing plaintraces of recent sleepless cares and
disquietudes, stood passively by,leaning against the main-mast, at one moment
casting a dreary,spiritless look upon his excited people, at the
next an unhappy glancetoward his visitor. By his side stood
a black of small stature, in whoserude face, as occasionally,
like a shepherd's dog, he mutely turned itup into the
Spaniard's, sorrow and affection were equally blended.

Struggling through the throng, the American advanced to the Spaniard,assuring
him of his sympathies, and offering to render whateverassistance might
be in his power. To which the Spaniard returned forthe
present but grave and ceremonious acknowledgments, his nationalformality dusked by
the saturnine mood of ill-health.

But losing no time in mere compliments, Captain Delano, returning
to thegangway, had his basket of fish brought up; and
as the wind stillcontinued light, so that some hours at
least must elapse ere the shipcould be brought to the
anchorage, he bade his men return to the sealer,and fetch
back as much water as the whale-boat could carry, withwhatever
soft bread the steward might have, all the remaining pumpkinson
board, with a box of sugar, and a dozen of
his private bottles ofcider.

Not many minutes after the boat's pushing off, to the
vexation of all,the wind entirely died away, and the tide
turning, began drifting backthe ship helplessly seaward. But trusting this
would not long last,Captain Delano sought, with good hopes, to
cheer up the strangers,feeling no small satisfaction that, with persons
in their condition, hecould--thanks to his frequent voyages along the
Spanish main--conversewith some freedom in their native tongue.

While left alone with them, he was not long in
observing some thingstending to heighten his first impressions; but surprise
was lost inpity, both for the Spaniards and blacks, alike
evidently reduced fromscarcity of water and provisions; while long-continued suffering
seemedto have brought out the less good-natured qualities of the
negroes,besides, at the same time, impairing the Spaniard's authority over
them.But, under the circumstances, precisely this condition of things was
tohave been anticipated. In armies, navies, cities, or families, in
natureherself, nothing more relaxes good order than misery. Still, CaptainDelano
was not without the idea, that had Benito Cereno been
a man ofgreater energy, misrule would hardly have come to
the present pass. Butthe debility, constitutional or induced by hardships,
bodily and mental,of the Spanish captain, was too obvious to
be overlooked. A prey tosettled dejection, as if long mocked
with hope he would not now indulgeit, even when it
had ceased to be a mock, the prospect of that
day, orevening at furthest, lying at anchor, with plenty of
water for hispeople, and a brother captain to counsel and
befriend, seemed in noperceptible degree to encourage him. His mind
appeared unstrung, if notstill more seriously affected. Shut up in
these oaken walls, chained toone dull round of command, whose
unconditionality cloyed him, like somehypochondriac abbot he moved slowly about,
at times suddenly pausing,starting, or staring, biting his lip, biting
his finger-nail, flushing,paling, twitching his beard, with other symptoms of
an absent or moodymind. This distempered spirit was lodged, as
before hinted, in asdistempered a frame. He was rather tall,
but seemed never to have beenrobust, and now with nervous
suffering was almost worn to a skeleton. Atendency to some
pulmonary complaint appeared to have been latelyconfirmed. His voice was
like that of one with lungs half gone--hoarselysuppressed, a husky
whisper. No wonder that, as in this state hetottered about,
his private servant apprehensively followed him.Sometimes the negro gave his
master his arm, or took his handkerchiefout of his pocket
for him; performing these and similar offices withthat affectionate zeal
which transmutes into something filial orfraternal acts in themselves but
menial; and which has gained for thenegro the repute of
making the most pleasing body-servant in the world;one, too, whom
a master need be on no stiffly superior terms with,
butmay treat with familiar trust; less a servant than a
devoted companion.

Marking the noisy indocility of the blacks in general, as
well as whatseemed the sullen inefficiency of the whites it
was not without humanesatisfaction that Captain Delano witnessed the steady
good conduct ofBabo.

But the good conduct of Babo, hardly more than the
ill-behavior ofothers, seemed to withdraw the half-lunatic Don Benito from
his cloudylanguor. Not that such precisely was the impression made
by the Spaniardon the mind of his visitor. The Spaniard's
individual unrest was, forthe present, but noted as a conspicuous
feature in the ship's generalaffliction. Still, Captain Delano was not
a little concerned at what hecould not help taking for
the time to be Don Benito's unfriendlyindifference towards himself. The
Spaniard's manner, too, conveyed asort of sour and gloomy disdain,
which he seemed at no pains todisguise. But this the
American in charity ascribed to the harassingeffects of sickness, since,
in former instances, he had noted that thereare peculiar natures
on whom prolonged physical suffering seems tocancel every social instinct
of kindness; as if, forced to black breadthemselves, they deemed
it but equity that each person coming nigh themshould, indirectly,
by some slight or affront, be made to partake oftheir
fare.

But ere long Captain Delano bethought him that, indulgent as
he was atthe first, in judging the Spaniard, he might
not, after all, haveexercised charity enough. At bottom it was
Don Benito's reserve whichdispleased him; but the same reserve was
shown towards all but hisfaithful personal attendant. Even the formal
reports which, according tosea-usage, were, at stated times, made to
him by some petty underling,either a white, mulatto or black,
he hardly had patience enough tolisten to, without betraying contemptuous
aversion. His manner upon suchoccasions was, in its degree, not
unlike that which might be supposedto have been his imperial
countryman's, Charles V., just previous to theanchoritish retirement of that
monarch from the throne.

This splenetic disrelish of his place was evinced in almost
everyfunction pertaining to it. Proud as he was moody, he
condescended to nopersonal mandate. Whatever special orders were necessary, their
deliverywas delegated to his body-servant, who in turn transferred them
to theirultimate destination, through runners, alert Spanish boys or slave
boys,like pages or pilot-fish within easy call continually hovering round
DonBenito. So that to have beheld this undemonstrative invalid glidingabout,
apathetic and mute, no landsman could have dreamed that in
himwas lodged a dictatorship beyond which, while at sea, there
was noearthly appeal.

Thus, the Spaniard, regarded in his reserve, seemed the involuntaryvictim
of mental disorder. But, in fact, his reserve might, in
somedegree, have proceeded from design. If so, then here was
evinced theunhealthy climax of that icy though conscientious policy, more
or lessadopted by all commanders of large ships, which, except
in signalemergencies, obliterates alike the manifestation of sway with everytrace
of sociality; transforming the man into a block, or rather
into aloaded cannon, which, until there is call for thunder,
has nothing tosay.

Viewing him in this light, it seemed but a natural
token of the perversehabit induced by a long course of
such hard self-restraint, that,notwithstanding the present condition of his ship,
the Spaniard shouldstill persist in a demeanor, which, however harmless,
or, it may be,appropriate, in a well-appointed vessel, such as
the San Dominick mighthave been at the outset of the
voyage, was anything but judicious now.But the Spaniard, perhaps, thought
that it was with captains as withgods: reserve, under all
events, must still be their cue. But probablythis appearance of
slumbering dominion might have been but an attempteddisguise to conscious
imbecility--not deep policy, but shallow device.But be all this as
it might, whether Don Benito's manner was designed ornot, the
more Captain Delano noted its pervading reserve, the less hefelt
uneasiness at any particular manifestation of that reserve towardshimself.

Neither were his thoughts taken up by the captain alone.
Wonted to thequiet orderliness of the sealer's comfortable family of
a crew, thenoisy confusion of the San Dominick's suffering host
repeatedlychallenged his eye. Some prominent breaches, not only of discipline
butof decency, were observed. These Captain Delano could not but
ascribe,in the main, to the absence of those subordinate deck-officers
to whom,along with higher duties, is intrusted what may be
styled the policedepartment of a populous ship. True, the old
oakum-pickers appeared attimes to act the part of monitorial constables
to their countrymen, theblacks; but though occasionally succeeding in allaying
triflingoutbreaks now and then between man and man, they could
do little ornothing toward establishing general quiet. The San Dominick
was in thecondition of a transatlantic emigrant ship, among whose
multitude ofliving freight are some individuals, doubtless, as little troublesome
ascrates and bales; but the friendly remonstrances of such with
theirruder companions are of not so much avail as the
unfriendly arm of themate. What the San Dominick wanted was,
what the emigrant ship has,stern superior officers. But on these
decks not so much as a fourth-matewas to be seen.

The visitor's curiosity was roused to learn the particulars of
thosemishaps which had brought about such absenteeism, with its consequences;because,
though deriving some inkling of the voyage from the wails
whichat the first moment had greeted him, yet of the
details no clearunderstanding had been had. The best account would,
doubtless, be givenby the captain. Yet at first the visitor
was loth to ask it, unwillingto provoke some distant rebuff.
But plucking up courage, he at lastaccosted Don Benito, renewing
the expression of his benevolent interest,adding, that did he (Captain
Delano) but know the particulars of theship's misfortunes, he would,
perhaps, be better able in the end torelieve them. Would
Don Benito favor him with the whole story.

Don Benito faltered; then, like some somnambulist suddenly interferedwith, vacantly
stared at his visitor, and ended by looking down on
thedeck. He maintained this posture so long, that Captain Delano,
almostequally disconcerted, and involuntarily almost as rude, turned suddenlyfrom him,
walking forward to accost one of the Spanish seamen for
thedesired information. But he had hardly gone five paces, when,
with asort of eagerness, Don Benito invited him back, regretting
his momentaryabsence of mind, and professing readiness to gratify him.

While most part of the story was being given, the
two captains stood onthe after part of the main-deck, a
privileged spot, no one being nearbut the servant.

"It is now a hundred and ninety days," began the
Spaniard, in his huskywhisper, "that this ship, well officered and
well manned, with severalcabin passengers--some fifty Spaniards in all--sailed from
Buenos Ayresbound to Lima, with a general cargo, hardware, Paraguay
tea and thelike--and," pointing forward, "that parcel of negroes, now
not more thana hundred and fifty, as you see, but
then numbering over three hundredsouls. Off Cape Horn we had
heavy gales. In one moment, by night, threeof my best
officers, with fifteen sailors, were lost, with themain-yard; the spar
snapping under them in the slings, as they sought,with heavers,
to beat down the icy sail. To lighten the hull,
theheavier sacks of mata were thrown into the sea, with
most of thewater-pipes lashed on deck at the time. And
this last necessity it was,combined with the prolonged detections afterwards
experienced, whicheventually brought about our chief causes of suffering. When--"

Here there was a sudden fainting attack of his cough,
brought on, nodoubt, by his mental distress. His servant sustained
him, and drawing acordial from his pocket placed it to
his lips. He a little revived. Butunwilling to leave him
unsupported while yet imperfectly restored, theblack with one arm still
encircled his master, at the same time keepinghis eye fixed
on his face, as if to watch for the first
sign of completerestoration, or relapse, as the event might prove.

The Spaniard proceeded, but brokenly and obscurely, as one in
a dream.

--"Oh, my God! rather than pass through what I have,
with joy I wouldhave hailed the most terrible gales; but--"

His cough returned and with increased violence; this subsiding; withreddened
lips and closed eyes he fell heavily against his supporter.

"His mind wanders. He was thinking of the plague that
followed thegales," plaintively sighed the servant; "my poor, poor master!"
wringingone hand, and with the other wiping the mouth. "But
be patient, Seor,"again turning to Captain Delano, "these fits do
not last long; masterwill soon be himself."

Don Benito reviving, went on; but as this portion of
the story was verybrokenly delivered, the substance only will here
be set down.

It appeared that after the ship had been many days
tossed in storms offthe Cape, the scurvy broke out, carrying
off numbers of the whites andblacks. When at last they
had worked round into the Pacific, their sparsand sails were
so damaged, and so inadequately handled by the survivingmariners, most
of whom were become invalids, that, unable to lay hernortherly
course by the wind, which was powerful, the unmanageable ship,for
successive days and nights, was blown northwestward, where thebreeze suddenly
deserted her, in unknown waters, to sultry calms. Theabsence of
the water-pipes now proved as fatal to life as before
theirpresence had menaced it. Induced, or at least aggravated, by
the morethan scanty allowance of water, a malignant fever followed
the scurvy;with the excessive heat of the lengthened calm, making
such short workof it as to sweep away, as by
billows, whole families of the Africans,and a yet larger number,
proportionably, of the Spaniards, including, bya luckless fatality, every remaining
officer on board. Consequently, inthe smart west winds eventually following
the calm, the already rentsails, having to be simply dropped,
not furled, at need, had beengradually reduced to the beggars'
rags they were now. To procuresubstitutes for his lost sailors,
as well as supplies of water andsails, the captain, at
the earliest opportunity, had made for Baldivia,the southernmost civilized port
of Chili and South America; but uponnearing the coast the
thick weather had prevented him from so much assighting that
harbor. Since which period, almost without a crew, andalmost without
canvas and almost without water, and, at intervals givingits added
dead to the sea, the San Dominick had been battle-dored
aboutby contrary winds, inveigled by currents, or grown weedy in
calms. Likea man lost in woods, more than once she
had doubled upon her own track.

"But throughout these calamities," huskily continued Don Benito,painfully turning in
the half embrace of his servant, "I have to thankthose
negroes you see, who, though to your inexperienced eyes appearingunruly,
have, indeed, conducted themselves with less of restlessnessthan even their
owner could have thought possible under suchcircumstances."

Here he again fell faintly back. Again his mind wandered;
but herallied, and less obscurely proceeded.

"Yes, their owner was quite right in assuring me that
no fetters wouldbe needed with his blacks; so that while,
as is wont in thistransportation, those negroes have always remained
upon deck--not thrustbelow, as in the Guinea-men--they have, also, from
the beginning, beenfreely permitted to range within given bounds at
their pleasure."

Once more the faintness returned--his mind roved--but, recovering, heresumed:

"But it is Babo here to whom, under God, I
owe not only my ownpreservation, but likewise to him, chiefly,
the merit is due, ofpacifying his more ignorant brethren, when
at intervals tempted tomurmurings."

"Ah, master," sighed the black, bowing his face, "don't speak
of me;Babo is nothing; what Babo has done was but
duty."

"Faithful fellow!" cried Captain Delano. "Don Benito, I envy you
such afriend; slave I cannot call him."

As master and man stood before him, the black upholding
the white,Captain Delano could not but bethink him of the
beauty of thatrelationship which could present such a spectacle of
fidelity on the onehand and confidence on the other. The
scene was heightened by, thecontrast in dress, denoting their relative
positions. The Spaniard worea loose Chili jacket of dark velvet;
white small-clothes and stockings,with silver buckles at the knee and
instep; a high-crowned sombrero, offine grass; a slender sword, silver
mounted, hung from a knot in hissash--the last being an
almost invariable adjunct, more for utility thanornament, of a South
American gentleman's dress to this hour. Exceptingwhen his occasional nervous
contortions brought about disarray, therewas a certain precision in his
attire curiously at variance with theunsightly disorder around; especially in
the belittered Ghetto, forwardof the main-mast, wholly occupied by the
blacks.

The servant wore nothing but wide trowsers, apparently, from theircoarseness
and patches, made out of some old topsail; they were
clean,and confined at the waist by a bit of unstranded
rope, which, with hiscomposed, deprecatory air at times, made him
look something like abegging friar of St. Francis.

However unsuitable for the time and place, at least in
theblunt-thinking American's eyes, and however strangely surviving in themidst of
all his afflictions, the toilette of Don Benito might not,
infashion at least, have gone beyond the style of the
day among SouthAmericans of his class. Though on the present
voyage sailing from BuenosAyres, he had avowed himself a native
and resident of Chili, whoseinhabitants had not so generally adopted
the plain coat and onceplebeian pantaloons; but, with a becoming
modification, adhered to theirprovincial costume, picturesque as any in the
world. Still, relativelyto the pale history of the voyage, and
his own pale face, there seemedsomething so incongruous in the
Spaniard's apparel, as almost to suggestthe image of an invalid
courtier tottering about London streets in thetime of the plague.

The portion of the narrative which, perhaps, most excited interest,
aswell as some surprise, considering the latitudes in question, was
thelong calms spoken of, and more particularly the ship's so
long driftingabout. Without communicating the opinion, of course, the American
couldnot but impute at least part of the detentions both
to clumsy seamanshipand faulty navigation. Eying Don Benito's small, yellow
hands, heeasily inferred that the young captain had not got
into command at thehawse-hole, but the cabin-window; and if so,
why wonder at incompetence,in youth, sickness, and gentility united?

But drowning criticism in compassion, after a fresh repetition of
hissympathies, Captain Delano, having heard out his story, not onlyengaged,
as in the first place, to see Don Benito and
his peoplesupplied in their immediate bodily needs, but, also, now
fartherpromised to assist him in procuring a large permanent supply
of water,as well as some sails and rigging; and, though
it would involve no smallembarrassment to himself, yet he would
spare three of his best seamenfor temporary deck officers; so
that without delay the ship mightproceed to Conception, there fully
to refit for Lima, her destined port.

Such generosity was not without its effect, even upon the
invalid. Hisface lighted up; eager and hectic, he met the
honest glance of hisvisitor. With gratitude he seemed overcome.

"This excitement is bad for master," whispered the servant, taking
hisarm, and with soothing words gently drawing him aside.

When Don Benito returned, the American was pained to observe
that hishopefulness, like the sudden kindling in his cheek, was
but febrile andtransient.

Ere long, with a joyless mien, looking up towards the
poop, the hostinvited his guest to accompany him there, for
the benefit of what littlebreath of wind might be stirring.

As, during the telling of the story, Captain Delano had
once or twicestarted at the occasional cymballing of the hatchet-polishers,
wonderingwhy such an interruption should be a