I think one of the rummiest affairs I was ever
mixed up with, in the course of a lifetime devoted
to butting into other people's business, was that affair of
George Lattaker at Monte Carlo. I wouldn't bore you, don't
you know, for the world, but I think you ought
to hear about it.

We had come to Monte Carlo on the yacht _Circe_,
belonging to an old sportsman of the name of Marshall.
Among those present were myself, my man Voules, a Mrs.
Vanderley, her daughter Stella, Mrs. Vanderley's maid Pilbeam and George.

George was a dear old pal of mine. In fact,
it was I who had worked him into the party.
You see, George was due to meet his Uncle Augustus,
who was scheduled, George having just reached his twenty-fifth birthday,
to hand over to him a legacy left by one
of George's aunts, for which he had been trustee. The
aunt had died when George was quite a kid. It
was a date that George had been looking forward to;
for, though he had a sort of income--an income, after-all,
is only an income, whereas a chunk of o' goblins
is a pile. George's uncle was in Monte Carlo, and
had written George that he would come to London and
unbelt; but it struck me that a far better plan
was for George to go to his uncle at Monte
Carlo instead. Kill two birds with one stone, don't you
know. Fix up his affairs and have a pleasant holiday
simultaneously. So George had tagged along, and at the time
when the trouble started we were anchored in Monaco Harbour,
and Uncle Augustus was due next day.

* * * * *

Looking back, I may say that, so far as I
was mixed up in it, the thing began at seven
o'clock in the morning, when I was aroused from a
dreamless sleep by the dickens of a scrap in progress
outside my state-room door. The chief ingredients were a female
voice that sobbed and said: "Oh, Harold!" and a male
voice "raised in anger," as they say, which after considerable
difficulty, I identified as Voules's. I hardly recognized it. In
his official capacity Voules talks exactly like you'd expect a
statue to talk, if it could. In private, however, he
evidently relaxed to some extent, and to have that sort
of thing going on in my midst at that hour
was too much for me.

"Voules!" I yelled.

Spion Kop ceased with a jerk. There was silence, then
sobs diminishing in the distance, and finally a tap at
the door. Voules entered with that impressive, my-lord-the-carriage-waits look which
is what I pay him for. You wouldn't have believed
he had a drop of any sort of emotion in
him.

"Voules," I said, "are you under the delusion that I'm
going to be Queen of the May? You've called me
early all right. It's only just seven."

"I understood you to summon me, sir."

"I summoned you to find out why you were making
that infernal noise outside."

"I owe you an apology, sir. I am afraid that
in the heat of the moment I raised my voice."

"It's a wonder you didn't raise the roof. Who was
that with you?"

"Miss Pilbeam, sir; Mrs. Vanderley's maid."

"What was all the trouble about?"

"I was breaking our engagement, sir."

I couldn't help gaping. Somehow one didn't associate Voules with
engagements. Then it struck me that I'd no right to
butt in on his secret sorrows, so I switched the
conversation.

"I think I'll get up," I said.

"Yes, sir."

"I can't wait to breakfast with the rest. Can you
get me some right away?"

"Yes, sir."

So I had a solitary breakfast and went up on
deck to smoke. It was a lovely morning. Blue sea,
gleaming Casino, cloudless sky, and all the rest of the
hippodrome. Presently the others began to trickle up. Stella Vanderley
was one of the first. I thought she looked a
bit pale and tired. She said she hadn't slept well.
That accounted for it. Unless you get your eight hours,
where are you?

"Seen George?" I asked.

I couldn't help thinking the name seemed to freeze her
a bit. Which was queer, because all the voyage she
and George had been particularly close pals. In fact, at
any moment I expected George to come to me and
slip his little hand in mine, and whisper: "I've done
it, old scout; she loves muh!"

"I have not seen Mr. Lattaker," she said.

I didn't pursue the subject. George's stock was apparently low
that a.m.

The next item in the day's programme occurred a few
minutes later when the morning papers arrived.

Mrs. Vanderley opened hers and gave a scream.

"The poor, dear Prince!" she said.

"What a shocking thing!" said old Marshall.

"I knew him in Vienna," said Mrs. Vanderley. "He waltzed
divinely."

Then I got at mine and saw what they were
talking about. The paper was full of it. It seemed
that late the night before His Serene Highness the Prince
of Saxburg-Leignitz (I always wonder why they call these chaps
"Serene") had been murderously assaulted in a dark street on
his way back from the Casino to his yacht. Apparently
he had developed the habit of going about without an
escort, and some rough-neck, taking advantage of this, had laid
for him and slugged him with considerable vim. The Prince
had been found lying pretty well beaten up and insensible
in the street by a passing pedestrian, and had been
taken back to his yacht, where he still lay unconscious.

"This is going to do somebody no good," I said.
"What do you get for slugging a Serene Highness? I
wonder if they'll catch the fellow?"

"'Later,'" read old Marshall, "'the pedestrian who discovered His Serene
Highness proves to have been Mr. Denman Sturgis, the eminent
private investigator. Mr. Sturgis has offered his services to the
police, and is understood to be in possession of a
most important clue.' That's the fellow who had charge of
that kidnapping case in Chicago. If anyone can catch the
man, he can."

About five minutes later, just as the rest of them
were going to move off to breakfast, a boat hailed
us and came alongside. A tall, thin man came up
the gangway. He looked round the group, and fixed on
old Marshall as the probable owner of the yacht.

"Good morning," he said. "I believe you have a Mr.
Lattaker on board--Mr. George Lattaker?"

"Yes," said Marshall. "He's down below. Want to see him?
Whom shall I say?"

"He would not know my name. I should like to
see him for a moment on somewhat urgent business."

"Take a seat. He'll be up in a moment. Reggie,
my boy, go and hurry him up."

I went down to George's state-room.

"George, old man!" I shouted.

No answer. I opened the door and went in. The
room was empty. What's more, the bunk hadn't been slept
in. I don't know when I've been more surprised. I
went on deck.

"He isn't there," I said.

"Not there!" said old Marshall. "Where is he, then? Perhaps
he's gone for a stroll ashore. But he'll be back
soon for breakfast. You'd better wait for him. Have you
breakfasted? No? Then will you join us?"

The man said he would, and just then the gong
went and they trooped down, leaving me alone on deck.

I sat smoking and thinking, and then smoking a bit
more, when I thought I heard somebody call my name
in a sort of hoarse whisper. I looked over my
shoulder, and, by Jove, there at the top of the
gangway in evening dress, dusty to the eyebrows and without
a hat, was dear old George.

"Great Scot!" I cried.

"'Sh!" he whispered. "Anyone about?"

"They're all down at breakfast."

He gave a sigh of relief, sank into my chair,
and closed his eyes. I regarded him with pity. The
poor old boy looked a wreck.

"I say!" I said, touching him on the shoulder.

He leaped out of the chair with a smothered yell.

"Did you do that? What did you do it for?
What's the sense of it? How do you suppose you
can ever make yourself popular if you go about touching
people on the shoulder? My nerves are sticking a yard
out of my body this morning, Reggie!"

"Yes, old boy?"

"I did a murder last night."

"What?"

"It's the sort of thing that might happen to anybody.
Directly Stella Vanderley broke off our engagement I----"

"Broke off your engagement? How long were you engaged?"

"About two minutes. It may have been less. I hadn't
a stop-watch. I proposed to her at ten last night
in the saloon. She accepted me. I was just going
to kiss her when we heard someone coming. I went
out. Coming along the corridor was that infernal what's-her-name--Mrs. Vanderley's
maid--Pilbeam. Have you ever been accepted by the girl you
love, Reggie?"

"Never. I've been refused dozens----"

"Then you won't understand how I felt. I was off
my head with joy. I hardly knew what I was
doing. I just felt I had to kiss the nearest
thing handy. I couldn't wait. It might have been the
ship's cat. It wasn't. It was Pilbeam."

"You kissed her?"

"I kissed her. And just at that moment the door
of the saloon opened and out came Stella."

"Great Scott!"

"Exactly what I said. It flashed across me that to
Stella, dear girl, not knowing the circumstances, the thing might
seem a little odd. It did. She broke off the
engagement, and I got out the dinghy and rowed off.
I was mad. I didn't care what became of me.
I simply wanted to forget. I went ashore. I--It's just
on the cards that I may have drowned my sorrows
a bit. Anyhow, I don't remember a thing, except that
I can recollect having the deuce of a scrap with
somebody in a dark street and somebody falling, and myself
falling, and myself legging it for all I was worth.
I woke up this morning in the Casino gardens. I've
lost my hat."

I dived for the paper.

"Read," I said. "It's all there."

He read.

"Good heavens!" he said.

"You didn't do a thing to His Serene Nibs, did
you?"

"Reggie, this is awful."

"Cheer up. They say he'll recover."

"That doesn't matter."

"It does to him."

He read the paper again.

"It says they've a clue."

"They always say that."

"But--My hat!"

"Eh?"

"My hat. I must have dropped it during the scrap.
This man, Denman Sturgis, must have found it. It had
my name in it!"

"George," I said, "you mustn't waste time. Oh!"

He jumped a foot in the air.

"Don't do it!" he said, irritably. "Don't bark like that.
What's the matter?"

"The man!"

"What man?"

"A tall, thin man with an eye like a gimlet.
He arrived just before you did. He's down in the
saloon now, having breakfast. He said he wanted to see
you on business, and wouldn't give his name. I didn't
like the look of him from the first. It's this
fellow Sturgis. It must be."

"No!"

"I feel it. I'm sure of it."

"Had he a hat?"

"Of course he had a hat."

"Fool! I mean mine. Was he carrying a hat?"

"By Jove, he _was_ carrying a parcel. George, old scout,
you must get a move on. You must light out
if you want to spend the rest of your life
out of prison. Slugging a Serene Highness is _lse-majest_. It's
worse than hitting a policeman. You haven't got a moment
to waste."

"But I haven't any money. Reggie, old man, lend me
a tenner or something. I must get over the frontier
into Italy at once. I'll wire my uncle to meet
me in----"

"Look out," I cried; "there's someone coming!"

He dived out of sight just as Voules came up
the companion-way, carrying a letter on a tray.

"What's the matter!" I said. "What do you want?"

"I beg your pardon, sir. I thought I heard Mr.
Lattaker's voice. A letter has arrived for him."

"He isn't here."

"No, sir. Shall I remove the letter?"

"No; give it to me. I'll give it to him
when he comes."

"Very good, sir."

"Oh, Voules! Are they all still at breakfast? The gentleman
who came to see Mr. Lattaker? Still hard at it?"

"He is at present occupied with a kippered herring, sir."

"Ah! That's all, Voules."

"Thank you, sir."

He retired. I called to George, and he came out.

"Who was it?"

"Only Voules. He brought a letter for you. They're all
at breakfast still. The sleuth's eating kippers."

"That'll hold him for a bit. Full of bones." He
began to read his letter. He gave a kind of
grunt of surprise at the first paragraph.

"Well, I'm hanged!" he said, as he finished.

"Reggie, this is a queer thing."

"What's that?"

He handed me the letter, and directly I started in
on it I saw why he had grunted. This is
how it ran:

"AUGUSTUS ARBUTT."

I read it through twice, and the second time I
had one of those ideas I do sometimes get, though
admittedly a chump of the premier class. I have seldom
had such a thoroughly corking brain-wave.

"Why, old top," I said, "this lets you out."

"Lets me out of half the darned money, if that's
what you mean. If this chap's not an imposter--and there's
no earthly reason to suppose he is, though I've never
heard my father say a word about him--we shall have
to split the money. Aunt Emily's will left the money
to my father, or, failing him, his 'offspring.' I thought
that meant me, but apparently there are a crowd of
us. I call it rotten work, springing unexpected offspring on
a fellow at the eleventh hour like this."

"Why, you chump," I said, "it's going to save you.
This lets you out of your spectacular dash across the
frontier. All you've got to do is to stay here
and be your brother Alfred. It came to me in
a flash."

He looked at me in a kind of dazed way.

"You ought to be in some sort of a home,
Reggie."

"Ass!" I cried. "Don't you understand? Have you ever heard
of twin-brothers who weren't exactly alike? Who's to say you
aren't Alfred if you swear you are? Your uncle will
be there to back you up that you have a
brother Alfred."

"And Alfred will be there to call me a liar."

"He won't. It's not as if you had to keep
it up for the rest of your life. It's only
for an hour or two, till we can get this
detective off the yacht. We sail for England to-morrow morning."

At last the thing seemed to sink into him. His
face brightened.

"Why, I really do believe it would work," he said.

"Of course it would work. If they want proof, show
them your mole. I'll swear George hadn't one."

"And as Alfred I should get a chance of talking
to Stella and making things all right for George. Reggie,
old top, you're a genius."

"No, no."

"You _are_."

"Well, it's only sometimes. I can't keep it up."

And just then there was a gentle cough behind us.
We spun round.

"What the devil are you doing here, Voules," I said.

"I beg your pardon, sir. I have heard all."

I looked at George. George looked at me.

"Voules is all right," I said. "Decent Voules! Voules wouldn't
give us away, would you, Voules?"

"Yes, sir."

"You would?"

"Yes, sir."

"But, Voules, old man," I said, "be sensible. What would
you gain by it?"

"Financially, sir, nothing."

"Whereas, by keeping quiet"--I tapped him on the chest--"by holding
your tongue, Voules, by saying nothing about it to anybody,
Voules, old fellow, you might gain a considerable sum."

"Am I to understand, sir, that, because you are rich
and I am poor, you think that you can buy
my self-respect?"

"Oh, come!" I said.

"How much?" said Voules.

So we switched to terms. You wouldn't believe the way
the man haggled. You'd have thought a decent, faithful servant
would have been delighted to oblige one in a little
matter like that for a fiver. But not Voules. By
no means. It was a hundred down, and the promise
of another hundred when we had got safely away, before
he was satisfied. But we fixed it up at last,
and poor old George got down to his state-room and
changed his clothes.

He'd hardly gone when the breakfast-party came on deck.

"Did you meet him?" I asked.

"Meet whom?" said old Marshall.

"George's twin-brother Alfred."

"I didn't know George had a brother."

"Nor did he till yesterday. It's a long story. He
was kidnapped in infancy, and everyone thought he was dead.
George had a letter from his uncle about him yesterday.
I shouldn't wonder if that's where George has gone, to
see his uncle and find out about it. In the
meantime, Alfred has arrived. He's down in George's state-room now,
having a brush-up. It'll amaze you, the likeness between them.
You'll think it _is_ George at first. Look! Here he
comes."

And up came George, brushed and clean, in an ordinary
yachting suit.

They were rattled. There was no doubt about that. They
stood looking at him, as if they thought there was
a catch somewhere, but weren't quite certain where it was.
I introduced him, and still they looked doubtful.

"Mr. Pepper tells me my brother is not on board,"
said George.

"It's an amazing likeness," said old Marshall.

"Is my brother like me?" asked George amiably.

"No one could tell you apart," I said.

"I suppose twins always are alike," said George. "But if
it ever came to a question of identification, there would
be one way of distinguishing us. Do you know George
well, Mr. Pepper?"

"He's a dear old pal of mine."

"You've been swimming with him perhaps?"

"Every day last August."

"Well, then, you would have noticed it if he had
had a mole like this on the back of his
neck, wouldn't you?" He turned his back and stooped and
showed the mole. His collar hid it at ordinary times.
I had seen it often when we were bathing together.

"Has George a mole like that?" he asked.

"No," I said. "Oh, no."

"You would have noticed it if he had?"

"Yes," I said. "Oh, yes."

"I'm glad of that," said George. "It would be a
nuisance not to be able to prove one's own identity."

That seemed to satisfy them all. They couldn't get away
from it. It seemed to me that from now on
the thing was a walk-over. And I think George felt
the same, for, when old Marshall asked him if he
had had breakfast, he said he had not, went below,
and pitched in as if he hadn't a care in
the world.

Everything went right till lunch-time. George sat in the shade
on the foredeck talking to Stella most of the time.
When the gong went and the rest had started to
go below, he drew me back. He was beaming.

"It's all right," he said. "What did I tell you?"

"What did you tell me?"

"Why, about Stella. Didn't I say that Alfred would fix
things for George? I told her she looked worried, and
got her to tell me what the trouble was. And
then----"

"You must have shown a flash of speed if you
got her to confide in you after knowing you for
about two hours."

"Perhaps I did," said George modestly, "I had no notion,
till I became him, what a persuasive sort of chap
my brother Alfred was. Anyway, she told me all about
it, and I started in to show her that George
was a pretty good sort of fellow on the whole,
who oughtn't to be turned down for what was evidently
merely temporary insanity. She saw my point."

"And it's all right?"

"Absolutely, if only we can produce George. How much longer
does that infernal sleuth intend to stay here? He seems
to have taken root."

"I fancy he thinks that you're bound to come back
sooner or later, and is waiting for you."

"He's an absolute nuisance," said George.

We were moving towards the companion way, to go below
for lunch, when a boat hailed us. We went to
the side and looked over.

"It's my uncle," said George.

A stout man came up the gangway.

"Halloa, George!" he said. "Get my letter?"

"I think you are mistaking me for my brother," said
George. "My name is Alfred Lattaker."

"What's that?"

"I am George's brother Alfred. Are you my Uncle Augustus?"

The stout man stared at him.

"You're very like George," he said.

"So everyone tells me."

"And you're really Alfred?"

"I am."

"I'd like to talk business with you for a moment."

He cocked his eye at me. I sidled off and
went below.

At the foot of the companion-steps I met Voules,

"I beg your pardon, sir," said Voules. "If it would
be convenient I should be glad to have the afternoon
off."

I'm bound to say I rather liked his manner. Absolutely
normal. Not a trace of the fellow-conspirator about it. I
gave him the afternoon off.

I had lunch--George didn't show up--and as I was going
out I was waylaid by the girl Pilbeam. She had
been crying.

"I beg your pardon, sir, but did Mr. Voules ask
you for the afternoon?"

I didn't see what business if was of hers, but
she seemed all worked up about it, so I told
her.

"Yes, I have given him the afternoon off."

She broke down--absolutely collapsed. Devilish unpleasant it was. I'm hopeless
in a situation like this. After I'd said, "There, there!"
which didn't seem to help much, I hadn't any remarks
to make.

"He s-said he was going to the tables to gamble
away all his savings and then shoot himself, because he
had nothing left to live for."

I suddenly remembered the scrap in the small hours outside
my state-room door. I hate mysteries. I meant to get
to the bottom of this. I couldn't have a really
first-class valet like Voules going about the place shooting himself
up. Evidently the girl Pilbeam was at the bottom of
the thing. I questioned her. She sobbed.

I questioned her more. I was firm. And eventually she
yielded up the facts. Voules had seen George kiss her
the night before; that was the trouble.

Things began to piece themselves together. I went up to
interview George. There was going to be another job for
persuasive Alfred. Voules's mind had got to be eased as
Stella's had been. I couldn't afford to lose a fellow
with his genius for preserving a trouser-crease.

I found George on the foredeck. What is it Shakespeare
or somebody says about some fellow's face being sicklied o'er
with the pale cast of care? George's was like that.
He looked green.

"Finished with your uncle?" I said.

He grinned a ghostly grin.

"There isn't any uncle," he said. "There isn't any Alfred.
And there isn't any money."

"Explain yourself, old top," I said.

"It won't take long. The old crook has spent every
penny of the trust money. He's been at it for
years, ever since I was a kid. When the time
came to cough up, and I was due to see
that he did it, he went to the tables in
the hope of a run of luck, and lost the
last remnant of the stuff. He had to find a
way of holding me for a while and postponing the
squaring of accounts while he got away, and he invented
this twin-brother business. He knew I should find out sooner
or later, but meanwhile he would be able to get
off to South America, which he has done. He's on
his way now."

"You let him go?"

"What could I do? I can't afford to make a
fuss with that man Sturgis around. I can't prove there's
no Alfred when my only chance of avoiding prison is
to be Alfred."

"Well, you've made things right for yourself with Stella Vanderley,
anyway," I said, to cheer him up.

"What's the good of that now? I've hardly any money
and no prospects. How can I marry her?"

I pondered.

"It looks to me, old top," I said at last,
"as if things were in a bit of a mess."

"You've guessed it," said poor old George.

I spent the afternoon musing on Life. If you come
to think of it, what a queer thing Life is!
So unlike anything else, don't you know, if you see
what I mean. At any moment you may be strolling
peacefully along, and all the time Life's waiting around the
corner to fetch you one. You can't tell when you
may be going to get it. It's all dashed puzzling.
Here was poor old George, as well-meaning a fellow as
ever stepped, getting swatted all over the ring by the
hand of Fate. Why? That's what I asked myself. Just
Life, don't you know. That's all there was about it.

It was close on six o'clock when our third visitor
of the day arrived. We were sitting on the afterdeck
in the cool of the evening--old Marshall, Denman Sturgis, Mrs.
Vanderley, Stella, George, and I--when he came up. We had
been talking of George, and old Marshall was suggesting the
advisability of sending out search-parties. He was worried. So was
Stella Vanderley. So, for that matter, were George and I,
only not for the same reason.

We were just arguing the thing out when the visitor
appeared. He was a well-built, stiff sort of fellow. He
spoke with a German accent.

"Mr. Marshall?" he said. "I am Count Fritz von Cslin,
equerry to His Serene Highness"--he clicked his heels together and
saluted--"the Prince of Saxburg-Leignitz."

Mrs. Vanderley jumped up.

"Why, Count," she said, "what ages since we met in
Vienna! You remember?"

"Could I ever forget? And the charming Miss Stella, she
is well, I suppose not?"

"Stella, you remember Count Fritz?"

Stella shook hands with him.

"And how is the poor, dear Prince?" asked Mrs. Vanderley.
"What a terrible thing to have happened!"

"I rejoice to say that my high-born master is better.
He has regained consciousness and is sitting up and taking
nourishment."

"That's good," said old Marshall.

"In a spoon only," sighed the Count. "Mr. Marshall, with
your permission I should like a word with Mr. Sturgis."

"Mr. Who?"

The gimlet-eyed sportsman came forward.

"I am Denman Sturgis, at your service."

"The deuce you are! What are you doing here?"

"Mr. Sturgis," explained the Count, "graciously volunteered his services----"

"I know. But what's he doing here?"

"I am waiting for Mr. George Lattaker, Mr. Marshall."

"Eh?"

"You have not found him?" asked the Count anxiously.

"Not yet, Count; but I hope to do so shortly.
I know what he looks like now. This gentleman is
his twin-brother. They are doubles."

"You are sure this gentleman is not Mr. George Lattaker?"

George put his foot down firmly on the suggestion.

"Don't go mixing me up with my brother," he said.
"I am Alfred. You can tell me by my mole."

He exhibited the mole. He was taking no risks.

The Count clicked his tongue regretfully.

"I am sorry," he said.

George didn't offer to console him,

"Don't worry," said Sturgis. "He won't escape me. I shall
find him."

"Do, Mr. Sturgis, do. And quickly. Find swiftly that noble
young man."

"What?" shouted George.

"That noble young man, George Lattaker, who, at the risk
of his life, saved my high-born master from the assassin."

George sat down suddenly.

"I don't understand," he said feebly.

"We were wrong, Mr. Sturgis," went on the Count. "We
leaped to the conclusion--was it not so?--that the owner of
the hat you found was also the assailant of my
high-born master. We were wrong. I have heard the story
from His Serene Highness's own lips. He was passing down
a dark street when a ruffian in a mask sprang
out upon him. Doubtless he had been followed from the
Casino, where he had been winning heavily. My high-born master
was taken by surprise. He was felled. But before he
lost consciousness he perceived a young man in evening dress,
wearing the hat you found, running swiftly towards him. The
hero engaged the assassin in combat, and my high-born master
remembers no more. His Serene Highness asks repeatedly, 'Where is
my brave preserver?' His gratitude is princely. He seeks for
this young man to reward him. Ah, you should be
proud of your brother, sir!"

"Thanks," said George limply.

"And you, Mr. Sturgis, you must redouble your efforts. You
must search the land; you must scour the sea to
find George Lattaker."

"He needn't take all that trouble," said a voice from
the gangway.

It was Voules. His face was flushed, his hat was
on the back of his head, and he was smoking
a fat cigar.

"I'll tell you where to find George Lattaker!" he shouted.

He glared at George, who was staring at him.

"Yes, look at me," he yelled. "Look at me. You
won't be the first this afternoon who's stared at the
mysterious stranger who won for two hours without a break.
I'll be even with you now, Mr. Blooming Lattaker. I'll
learn you to break a poor man's heart. Mr. Marshall
and gents, this morning I was on deck, and I
over'eard 'im plotting to put up a game on you.
They'd spotted that gent there as a detective, and they
arranged that blooming Lattaker was to pass himself off as
his own twin-brother. And if you wanted proof, blooming Pepper
tells him to show them his mole and he'd swear
George hadn't one. Those were his very words. That man
there is George Lattaker, Hesquire, and let him deny it
if he can."

George got up.

"I haven't the least desire to deny it, Voules."

"Mr. Voules, if _you_ please."

"It's true," said George, turning to the Count. "The fact
is, I had rather a foggy recollection of what happened
last night. I only remembered knocking some one down, and,
like you, I jumped to the conclusion that I must
have assaulted His Serene Highness."

"Then you are really George Lattaker?" asked the Count.

"I am."

"'Ere, what does all this mean?" demanded Voules.

"Merely that I saved the life of His Serene Highness
the Prince of Saxburg-Leignitz, Mr. Voules."

"It's a swindle!" began Voules, when there was a sudden
rush and the girl Pilbeam cannoned into the crowd, sending
me into old Marshall's chair, and flung herself into the
arms of Voules.

"Oh, Harold!" she cried. "I thought you were dead. I
thought you'd shot yourself."

He sort of braced himself together to fling her off,
and then he seemed to think better of it and
fell into the clinch.

It was all dashed romantic, don't you know, but there
_are_ limits.

"Voules, you're sacked," I said.

"Who cares?" he said. "Think I was going to stop
on now I'm a gentleman of property? Come along, Emma,
my dear. Give a month's notice and get your 'at,
and I'll take you to dinner at Ciro's."

"And you, Mr. Lattaker," said the Count, "may I conduct
you to the presence of my high-born master? He wishes
to show his gratitude to his preserver."

"You may," said George. "May I have my hat, Mr.
Sturgis?"

There's just one bit more. After dinner that night I
came up for a smoke, and, strolling on to the
foredeck, almost bumped into George and Stella. They seemed to
be having an argument.

"I'm not sure," she was saying, "that I believe that
a man can be so happy that he wants to
kiss the nearest thing in sight, as you put it."

"Don't you?" said George. "Well, as it happens, I'm feeling
just that way now."

I coughed and he turned round.

"Halloa, Reggie!" he said.

"Halloa, George!" I said. "Lovely night."

"Beautiful," said Stella.

"The moon," I said.

"Ripping," said George.

"Lovely," said Stella.

"And look at the reflection of the stars on the----"

George caught my eye. "Pop off," he said.

I popped.