A rather small young man sat by the window of
a pretty seaside cottage trying to persuade himself that he
was reading the newspaper. It was about half-past eight in
the morning. Outside, the glory roses hung in the morning
sunshine like little bowls of fire tipped up. The young
man looked at the table, then at the clock, then
at his own big silver watch. An expression of stiff
endurance came on to his face. Then he rose and
reflected on the oil-paintings that hung on the walls of
the room, giving careful but hostile attention to "The Stag
at Bay". He tried the lid of the piano, and
found it locked. He caught sight of his own face
in a little mirror, pulled his brown moustache, and an
alert interest sprang into his eyes. He was not ill-favoured.
He twisted his moustache. His figure was rather small, but
alert and vigorous. As he turned from the mirror a
look of self-commiseration mingled with his appreciation of his own
physiognomy.

In a state of self-suppression, he went through into the
garden. His jacket, however, did not look dejected. It was
new, and had a smart and self-confident air, sitting upon
a confident body. He contemplated the Tree of Heaven that
flourished by the lawn, then sauntered on to the next
plant. There was more promise in a crooked apple tree
covered with brown-red fruit. Glancing round, he broke off an
apple and, with his back to the house, took a
clean, sharp bite. To his surprise the fruit was sweet.
He took another. Then again he turned to survey the
bedroom windows overlooking the garden. He started, seeing a woman's
figure; but it was only his wife. She was gazing
across to the sea, apparently ignorant of him.

For a moment or two he looked at her, watching
her. She was a good-looking woman, who seemed older than
he, rather pale, but healthy, her face yearning. Her rich
auburn hair was heaped in folds on her forehead. She
looked apart from him and his world, gazing away to
the sea. It irked her husband that she should continue
abstracted and in ignorance of him; he pulled poppy fruits
and threw them at the window. She started, glanced at
him with a wild smile, and looked away again. Then
almost immediately she left the window. He went indoors to
meet her. She had a fine carriage, very proud, and
wore a dress of soft white muslin.

"I've been waiting long enough," he said.

"For me or for breakfast?" she said lightly. "You know
we said nine o'clock. I should have thought you could
have slept after the journey."

"You know I'm always up at five, and I couldn't
stop in bed after six. You might as well be
in pit as in bed, on a morning like this."

"I shouldn't have thought the pit would occur to you,
here."

She moved about examining the room, looking at the ornaments
under glass covers. He, planted on the hearthrug, watched her
rather uneasily, and grudgingly indulgent. She shrugged her shoulders at
the apartment.

"Come," she said, taking his arm, "let us go into
the garden till Mrs Coates brings the tray."

"I hope she'll be quick," he said, pulling his moustache.
She gave a short laugh, and leaned on his arm
as they went. He had lighted a pipe.

Mrs Coates entered the room as they went down the
steps. The delightful, erect old lady hastened to the window
for a good view of her visitors. Her china-blue eyes
were bright as she watched the young couple go down
the path, he walking in an easy, confident fashion, with
his wife, on his arm. The landlady began talking to
herself in a soft, Yorkshire accent.

"Just of a height they are. She wouldn't ha' married
a man less than herself in stature, I think, though
he's not her equal otherwise." Here her granddaughter came in,
setting a tray on the table. The girl went to
the old woman's side.

"He's been eating the apples, gran'," she said.

"Has he, my pet? Well, if he's happy, why not?"

Outside, the young, well-favoured man listened with impatience to the
chink of the teacups. At last, with a sigh of
relief, the couple came in to breakfast. After he had
eaten for some time, he rested a moment and said:

"Do you think it's any better place than Bridlington?"

"I do," she said, "infinitely! Besides, I am at home
here--it's not like a strange sea-side place to me."

"How long were you here?"

"Two years."

He ate reflectively.

"I should ha' thought you'd rather go to a fresh
place," he said at length.

She sat very silent, and then, delicately, put out a
feeler.

"Why?" she said. "Do you think I shan't enjoy myself?"

He laughed comfortably, putting the marmalade thick on his bread.

"I hope so," he said.

She again took no notice of him.

"But don't say anything about it in the village, Frank,"
she said casually. "Don't say who I am, or that
I used to live here. There's nobody I want to
meet, particularly, and we should never feel free if they
knew me again."

"Why did you come, then?"

"'Why?' Can't you understand why?"

"Not if you don't want to know anybody."

"I came to see the place, not the people."

He did not say any more.

"Women," she said, "are different from men. I don't know
why I wanted to come--but I did."

She helped him to another cup of coffee, solicitously.

"Only," she resumed, "don't talk about me in the village."
She laughed shakily. "I don't want my past brought up
against me, you know." And she moved the crumbs on
the cloth with her finger-tip.

He looked at her as he drank his coffee; he
sucked his moustache, and putting down his cup, said phlegmatically:

"I'll bet you've had a lot of past."

She looked with a little guiltiness, that flattered him, down
at the tablecloth.

"Well," she said, caressive, "you won't give me away, who
I am, will you?"

"No," he said, comforting, laughing, "I won't give you away."

He was pleased.

She remained silent. After a moment or two she lifted
her head, saying:

"I've got to arrange with Mrs Coates, and do various
things. So you'd better go out by yourself this morning--and
we'll be in to dinner at one."

"But you can't be arranging with Mrs Coates all morning,"
he said.

"Oh, well--then I've some letters to write, and I must
get that mark out of my skirt. I've got plenty
of little things to do this morning. You'd better go
out by yourself."

He perceived that she wanted to be rid of him,
so that when she went upstairs, he took his hat
and lounged out on to the cliffs, suppressedly angry.

Presently she too came out. She wore a hat with
roses, and a long lace scarf hung over her white
dress. Rather nervously, she put up her sunshade, and her
face was half-hidden in its coloured shadow. She went along
the narrow track of flag-stones that were worn hollow by
the feet of the fishermen. She seemed to be avoiding
her surroundings, as if she remained safe in the little
obscurity of her parasol.

She passed the church, and went down the lane till
she came to a high wall by the wayside. Under
this she went slowly, stopping at length by an open
doorway, which shone like a picture of light in the
dark wall. There in the magic beyond the doorway, patterns
of shadow lay on the sunny court, on the blue
and white sea-pebbles of its paving, while a green lawn
glowed beyond, where a bay tree glittered at the edges.
She tiptoed nervously into the courtyard, glancing at the house
that stood in shadow. The uncurtained windows looked black and
soulless, the kitchen door stood open. Irresolutely she took a
step forward, and again forward, leaning, yearning, towards the garden
beyond.

She had almost gained the corner of the house when
a heavy step came crunching through the trees. A gardener
appeared before her. He held a wicker tray on which
were rolling great, dark red gooseberries, overripe. He moved slowly.

"The garden isn't open today," he said quietly to the
attractive woman, who was poised for retreat.

For a moment she was silent with surprise. How should
it be public at all?

"When is it open?" she asked, quick-witted.

"The rector lets visitors in on Fridays and Tuesdays."

She stood still, reflecting. How strange to think of the
rector opening his garden to the public!

"But everybody will be at church," she said coaxingly to
the man. "There'll be nobody here, will there?"

He moved, and the big gooseberries rolled.

"The rector lives at the new rectory," he said.

The two stood still. He did not like to ask
her to go. At last she turned to him with
a winning smile.

"Might I have one peep at the roses?" she coaxed,
with pretty wilfulness.

"I don't suppose it would matter," he said, moving aside:
"you won't stop long--"

She went forward, forgetting the gardener in a moment. Her
face became strained, her movements eager. Glancing round, she saw
all the windows giving on to the lawn were curtainless
and dark. The house had a sterile appearance, as if
it were still used, but not inhabited. A shadow seemed
to go over her. She went across the lawn towards
the garden, through an arch of crimson ramblers, a gate
of colour. There beyond lay the soft blue sea with
the bay, misty with morning, and the farthest headland of
black rock jutting dimly out between blue and blue of
the sky and water. Her face began to shine, transfigured
with pain and joy. At her feet the garden fell
steeply, all a confusion of flowers, and away below was
the darkness of tree-tops covering the beck.

She turned to the garden that shone with sunny flowers
around her. She knew the little corner where was the
seat beneath the yew tree. Then there was the terrace
where a great host of flowers shone, and from this,
two paths went down, one at each side of the
garden. She closed her sunshade and walked slowly among the
many flowers. All round were rose bushes, big banks of
roses, then roses hanging and tumbling from pillars, or roses
balanced on the standard bushes. By the open earth were
many other flowers. If she lifted her head, the sea
was upraised beyond, and the Cape.

Slowly she went down one path, lingering, like one who
has gone back into the past. Suddenly she was touching
some heavy crimson roses that were soft as velvet, touching
them thoughtfully, without knowing, as a mother sometimes fondles the
hand of her child. She leaned slightly forward to catch
the scent. Then she wandered on in abstraction. Sometimes a
flame-coloured, scentless rose would hold her arrested. She stood gazing
at it as if she could not understand it. Again
the same softness of intimacy came over her, as she
stood before a tumbling heap of pink petals. Then she
wondered over the white rose, that was greenish, like ice,
in the centre. So, slowly, like a white, pathetic butterfly,
she drifted down the path, coming at last to a
tiny terrace all full of roses. They seemed to fill
the place, a sunny, gay throng. She was shy of
them, they were so many and so bright. They seemed
to be conversing and laughing. She felt herself in a
strange crowd. It exhilarated her, carried her out of herself.
She flushed with excitement. The air was pure scent.

Hastily, she went to a little seat among the white
roses, and sat down. Her scarlet sunshade made a hard
blot of colour. She sat quite still, feeling her own
existence lapse. She was no more than a rose, a
rose that could not quite come into blossom, but remained
tense. A little fly dropped on her knee, on her
white dress. She watched it, as if it had fallen
on a rose. She was not herself.

Then she started cruelly as a shadow crossed her and
a figure moved into her sight. It was a man
who had come in slippers, unheard. He wore a linen
coat. The morning was shattered, the spell vanished away. She
was only afraid of being questioned. He came forward. She
rose. Then, seeing him, the strength went from her and
she sank on the seat again.

He was a young man, military in appearance, growing slightly
stout. His black hair was brushed smooth and bright, his
moustache was waxed. But there was something rambling in his
gait. She looked up, blanched to the lips, and saw
his eyes. They were black, and stared without seeing. They
were not a man's eyes. He was coming towards her.

He stared at her fixedly, made unconscious salute, and sat
down beside her on the seat. He moved on the
bench, shifted his feet, saying, in a gentlemanly, military voice:

"I don't disturb you--do I?"

She was mute and helpless. He was scrupulously dressed in
dark clothes and a linen coat. She could not move.
Seeing his hands, with the ring she knew so well
upon the little finger, she felt as if she were
going dazed. The whole world was deranged. She sat unavailing.
For his hands, her symbols of passionate love, filled her
with horror as they rested now on his strong thighs.

"May I smoke?" he asked intimately, almost secretly, his hand
going to his pocket.

She could not answer, but it did not matter, he
was in another world. She wondered, craving, if he recognized
her--if he could recognize her. She sat pale with anguish.
But she had to go through it.

"I haven't got any tobacco," he said thoughtfully.

But she paid no heed to his words, only she
attended to him. Could he recognize her, or was it
all gone? She sat still in a frozen kind of
suspense.

"I smoke John Cotton," he said, "and I must economize
with it, it is expensive. You know, I'm not very
well off while these lawsuits are going on."

"No," she said, and her heart was cold, her soul
kept rigid.

He moved, made a loose salute, rose, and went away.
She sat motionless. She could see his shape, the shape
she had loved, with all her passion: his compact, soldier's
head, his fine figure now slackened. And it was not
he. It only filled her with horror too difficult to
know.

Suddenly he came again, his hand in his jacket pocket.

"Do you mind if I smoke?" he said. "Perhaps I
shall be able to see things more clearly."

He sat down beside her again, filling a pipe. She
watched his hands with the fine strong fingers. They had
always inclined to tremble slightly. It had surprised her, long
ago, in such a healthy man. Now they moved inaccurately,
and the tobacco hung raggedly out of the pipe.

"I have legal business to attend to. Legal affairs are
always so uncertain. I tell my solicitor exactly, precisely what
I want, but I can never get it done."

She sat and heard him talking. But it was not
he. Yet those were the hands she had kissed, there
were the glistening, strange black eyes that she had loved.
Yet it was not he. She sat motionless with horror
and silence. He dropped his tobacco pouch, and groped for
it on the ground. Yet she must wait if he
would recognize her. Why could she not go! In a
moment he rose.

"I must go at once," he said. "The owl is
coming." Then he added confidentially: "His name isn't really the
owl, but I call him that. I must go and
see if he has come."

She rose too. He stood before her, uncertain. He was
a handsome, soldierly fellow, and a lunatic. Her eyes searched
him, and searched him, to see if he would recognize
her, if she could discover him.

"You don't know me?" she asked, from the terror of
her soul, standing alone.

He looked back at her quizzically. She had to bear
his eyes. They gleamed on her, but with no intelligence.
He was drawing nearer to her.

"Yes, I do know you," he said, fixed, intent, but
mad, drawing his face nearer hers. Her horror was too
great. The powerful lunatic was coming too near to her.

A man approached, hastening.

"The garden isn't open this morning," he said.

The deranged man stopped and looked at him. The keeper
went to the seat and picked up the tobacco pouch
left lying there.

"Don't leave your tobacco, sir," he said, taking it to
the gentleman in the linen coat.

"I was just asking this lady to stay to lunch,"
the latter said politely. "She is a friend of mine."

The woman turned and walked swiftly, blindly, between the sunny
roses, out of the garden, past the house with the
blank, dark windows, through the sea-pebbled courtyard to the street.
Hastening and blind, she went forward without hesitating, not knowing
whither. Directly she came to the house she went upstairs,
took off her hat, and sat down on the bed.
It was as if some membrane had been torn in
two in her, so that she was not an entity
that could think and feel. She sat staring across at
the window, where an ivy spray waved slowly up and
down in the sea wind. There was some of the
uncanny luminousness of the sunlit sea in the air. She
sat perfectly still, without any being. She only felt she
might be sick, and it might be blood that was
loose in her torn entrails. She sat perfectly still and
passive.

After a time she heard the hard tread of her
husband on the floor below, and, without herself changing, she
registered his movement. She heard his rather disconsolate footsteps go
out again, then his voice speaking, answering, growing cheery, and
his solid tread drawing near.

He entered, ruddy, rather pleased, an air of complacency about
his alert figure. She moved stiffly. He faltered in his
approach.

"What's the matter?" he asked a tinge of impatience in
his voice. "Aren't you feeling well?"

This was torture to her.

"Quite," she replied.

His brown eyes became puzzled and angry.

"What is the matter?" he said.

"Nothing."

He took a few strides, and stood obstinately, looking out
of the window.

"Have you run up against anybody?" he asked.

"Nobody who knows me," she said.

His hands began to twitch. It exasperated him, that she
was no more sensible of him than if he did
not exist. Turning on her at length, driven, he asked:

"Something has upset you hasn't it?"

"No, why?" she said neutral. He did not exist for
her, except as an irritant.

His anger rose, filling the veins in his throat.

"It seems like it," he said, making an effort not
to show his anger, because there seemed no reason for
it. He went away downstairs. She sat still on the
bed, and with the residue of feeling left to her,
she disliked him because he tormented her. The time went
by. She could smell the dinner being served, the smoke
of her husband's pipe from the garden. But she could
not move. She had no being. There was a tinkle
of the bell. She heard him come indoors. And then
he mounted the stairs again. At every step her heart
grew tight in her. He opened the door.

"Dinner is on the table," he said.

It was difficult for her to endure his presence, for
he would interfere with her. She could not recover her
life. She rose stiffly and went down. She could neither
eat nor talk during the meal. She sat absent, torn,
without any being of her own. He tried to go
on as if nothing were the matter. But at last
he became silent with fury. As soon as it was
possible, she went upstairs again, and locked the bedroom door.
She must be alone. He went with his pipe into
the garden. All his suppressed anger against her who held
herself superior to him filled and blackened his heart. Though
he had not know it, yet he had never really
won her, she had never loved him. She had taken
him on sufference. This had foiled him. He was only
a labouring electrician in the mine, she was superior to
him. He had always given way to her. But all
the while, the injury and ignominy had been working in
his soul because she did not hold him seriously. And
now all his rage came up against her.

He turned and went indoors. The third time, she heard
him mounting the stairs. Her heart stood still. He turned
the catch and pushed the door--it was locked. He tried
it again, harder. Her heart was standing still.

"Have you fastened the door?" he asked quietly, because of
the landlady.

"Yes. Wait a minute."

She rose and turned the lock, afraid he would burst
it. She felt hatred towards him, because he did not
leave her free. He entered, his pipe between his teeth,
and she returned to her old position on the bed.
He closed the door and stood with his back to
it.

"What's the matter?" he asked determinedly.

She was sick with him. She could not look at
him.

"Can't you leave me alone?" she replied, averting her face
from him.

He looked at her quickly, fully, wincing with ignominy. Then
he seemed to consider for a moment.

"There's something up with you, isn't there?" he asked definitely.

"Yes," she said, "but that's no reason why you should
torment me."

"I don't torment you. What's the matter?"

"Why should you know?" she cried, in hate and desperation.

Something snapped. He started and caught his pipe as it
fell from his mouth. Then he pushed forward the bitten-off
mouth-piece with his tongue, took it from off his lips,
and looked at it. Then he put out his pipe,
and brushed the ash from his waistcoat. After which he
raised his head.

"I want to know," he said. His face was greyish
pale, and set uglily.

Neither looked at the other. She knew he was fired
now. His heart was pounding heavily. She hated him, but
she could not withstand him. Suddenly she lifted her head
and turned on him.

"What right have you to know?" she asked.

He looked at her. She felt a pang of surprise
for his tortured eyes and his fixed face. But her
heart hardened swiftly. She had never loved him. She did
not love him now.

But suddenly she lifted her head again swiftly, like a
thing that tries to get free. She wanted to be
free of it. It was not him so much, but
it, something she had put on herself, that bound her
so horribly. And having put the bond on herself, it
was hardest to take it off. But now she hated
everything and felt destructive. He stood with his back to
the door, fixed, as if he would oppose her eternally,
till she was extinguished. She looked at him. Her eyes
were cold and hostile. His workman's hands spread on the
panels of the door behind him.

"You know I used to live here?" she began, in
a hard voice, as if wilfully to wound him. He
braced himself against her, and nodded.

"Well, I was companion to Miss Birch of Torril Hall--she
and the rector were friends, and Archie was the rector's
son." There was a pause. He listened without knowing what
was happening. He stared at his wife. She was squatted
in her white dress on the bed, carefully folding and
re-folding the hem of her skirt. Her voice was full
of hostility.

"He was an officer--a sub-lieutenant--then he quarrelled with his colonel
and came out of the army. At any rate"--she plucked
at her skirt hem, her husband stood motionless, watching her
movements which filled his veins with madness--"he was awfully fond
of me, and I was of him--awfully."

"How old was he?" asked the husband.

"When--when I first knew him? Or when he went away?--"

"When you first knew him."

"When I first knew him, he was twenty-six--now--he's thirty-one--nearly thirty-two--because
I'm twenty-nine, and he is nearly three years older--"

She lifted her head and looked at the opposite wall.

"And what then?" said her husband.

She hardened herself, and said callously:

"We were as good as engaged for nearly a year,
though nobody knew--at least--they talked--but--it wasn't open. Then he went
away--"

"He chucked you?" said the husband brutally, wanting to hurt
her into contact with himself. Her heart rose wildly with
rage. Then "Yes", she said, to anger him. He shifted
from one foot to the other, giving a "Ph!" of
rage. There was silence for a time.

"Then," she resumed, her pain giving a mocking note to
her words, "he suddenly went out to fight in Africa,
and almost the very day I first met you, I
heard from Miss Birch he'd got sunstroke--and two months after,
that he was dead--"

"That was before you took on with me?" said the
husband.

There was no answer. Neither spoke for a time. He
had not understood. His eyes were contracted uglily.

"So you've been looking at your old courting places!" he
said. "That was what you wanted to go out by
yourself for this morning."

Still she did not answer him anything. He went away
from the door to the window. He stood with his
hands behind him, his back to her. She looked at
him. His hands seemed gross to her, the back of
his head paltry.

At length, almost against his will, he turned round, asking:

"How long were you carrying on with him?"

"What do you mean?" she replied coldly.

"I mean how long were you carrying on with him?"

She lifted her head, averting her face from him. She
refused to answer. Then she said:

"I don't know what you mean, by carrying on. I
loved him from the first days I met him--two months
after I went to stay with Miss Birch."

"And do you reckon he loved you?" he jeered.

"I know he did."

"How do you know, if he'd have no more to
do with you?"

There was a long silence of hate and suffering.

"And how far did it go between you?" he asked
at length, in a frightened, stiff voice.

"I hate your not-straightforward questions," she cried, beside herself with
his baiting. "We loved each other, and we were lovers--we
were. I don't care what you think: what have you
got to do with it? We were lovers before ever
I knew you--"

"Lovers--lovers," he said, white with fury. "You mean you had
your fling with an army man, and then came to
me to marry you when you'd done--"

She sat swallowing her bitterness. There was a long pause.

"Do you mean to say you used to go--the whole
hogger?" he asked, still incredulous.

"Why, what else do you think I mean?" she cried
brutally.

He shrank, and became white, impersonal. There was a long,
paralysed silence. He seemed to have gone small.

"You never thought to tell me all this before I
married you," he said, with bitter irony, at last.

"You never asked me," she replied.

"I never thought there was any need."

"Well, then, you should think."

He stood with expressionless, almost childlike set face, revolving many
thoughts, whilst his heart was mad with anguish.

Suddenly she added:

"And I saw him today," she said. "He is not
dead, he's mad."

Her husband looked at her, startled.

"Mad!' he said involuntarily.

"A lunatic," she said. It almost cost her her reason
to utter the word. There was a pause.

"Did he know you?" asked the husband in a small
voice.

"No," she said.

He stood and looked at her. At last he had
learned the width of the breach between them. She still
squatted on the bed. He could not go near her.
It would be violation to each of them to be
brought into contact with the other. The thing must work
itself out. They were both shocked so much, they were
impersonal, and no longer hated each other. After some minutes
he left her and went out.