Beauvale is, or was, the largest parish in England. It
is thinly populated, only just netting the stragglers from shoals
of houses in three large mining villages. For the rest,
it holds a great tract of woodland, fragment of old
Sherwood, a few hills of pasture and arable land, three
collieries, and, finally, the ruins of a Cistercian abbey. These
ruins lie in a still rich meadow at the foot
of the last fall of woodland, through whose oaks shines
a blue of hyacinths, like water, in May-time. Of the
abbey, there remains only the east wall of the chancel
standing, a wild thick mass of ivy weighting one shoulder,
while pigeons perch in the tracery of the lofty window.
This is the window in question.

The vicar of Beauvale is a bachelor of forty-two years.
Quite early in life some illness caused a slight paralysis
of his right side, so that he drags a little,
and so that the right corner of his mouth is
twisted up into his cheek with a constant grimace, unhidden
by a heavy moustache. There is something pathetic about this
twist on the vicar's countenance: his eyes are so shrewd
and sad. It would be hard to get near to
Mr Colbran. Indeed, now, his soul had some of the
twist of his face, so that, when he is not
ironical, he is satiric. Yet a man of more complete
tolerance and generosity scarcely exists. Let the boors mock him,
he merely smiles on the other side, and there is
no malice in his eyes, only a quiet expression of
waiting till they have finished. His people do not like
him, yet none could bring forth an accusation against him,
save, that "You never can tell when he's having you."

I dined the other evening with the vicar in his
study. The room scandalizes the neighbourhood because of the statuary
which adorns it: a Laocoon and other classic copies, with
bronze and silver Italian Renaissance work. For the rest, it
is all dark and tawny.

Mr Colbran is an archaeologist. He does not take himself
seriously, however, in his hobby, so that nobody knows the
worth of his opinions on the subject.

"Here you are," he said to me after dinner, "I've
found another paragraph for my great work."

"What's that?" I asked.

"Haven't I told you I was compiling a Bible of
the English people--the Bible of their hearts--their exclamations in presence
of the unknown? I've found a fragment at home, a
jump at God from Beauvale."

"Where?" I asked, startled.

The vicar closed his eyes whilst looking at me.

"Only on parchment," he said.

Then, slowly, he reached for a yellow book, and read,
translating as he went:

"Then, while we chanted, came a crackling at the window,
at the great east window, where hung our Lord on
the Cross. It was a malicious covetous Devil wrathed by
us, rended the lovely image of the glass. We saw
the iron clutches of the fiend pick the window, and
a face flaming red like fire in a basket did
glower down on us. Our hearts melted away, our legs
broke, we thought to die. The breath of the wretch
filled the chapel.

"But our dear Saint, etc., etc., came hastening down heaven
to defend us. The fiend began to groan and bray--he
was daunted and beat off.

"When the sun uprose, and it was morning, some went
out in dread upon the thin snow. There the figure
of our Saint was broken and thrown down, whilst in
the window was a wicked hole as from the Holy
Wounds the Blessed Blood was run out at the touch
of the Fiend, and on the snow was the Blood,
sparkling like gold. Some gathered it up for the joy
of this House. . . ."

"Interesting," I said. "Where's it from?"

"Beauvale records--fifteenth century."

"Beauvale Abbey," I said; "they were only very few, the
monks. What frightened them, I wonder."

"I wonder," he repeated.

"Somebody climbed up," I supposed, "and attempted to get in."

"What?" he exclaimed, smiling.

"Well, what do you think?"

"Pretty much the same," he replied. "I glossed it out
for my book."

"Your great work? Tell me."

He put a shade over the lamp so that the
room was almost in darkness.

"Am I more than a voice?" he asked.

"I can see your hand," I replied. He moved entirely
from the circle of light. Then his voice began, sing-song,
sardonic:

"I was a serf in Rollestoun's Newthorpe Manor, master of
the stables I was. One day a horse bit me
as I was grooming him. He was an old enemy
of mine. I fetched him a blow across the nose.
Then, when he got a chance, he lashed out at
me and caught me a gash over the mouth. I
snatched at a hatchet and cut his head. He yelled,
fiend as he was, and strained for me with all
his teeth bare. I brought him down.

"For killing him they flogged me till they thought I
was dead. I was sturdy, because we horse-serfs got plenty
to eat. I was sturdy, but they flogged me till
I did not move. The next night I set fire
to the stables, and the stables set fire to the
house. I watched and saw the red flame rise and
look out of the window, I saw the folk running,
each for himself, master no more than one of a
frightened party. It was freezing, but the heat made me
sweat. I saw them all turn again to watch, all
rimmed with red. They cried, all of them when the
roof went in, when the sparks splashed up at rebound.
They cried then like dogs at the bagpipes howling. Master
cursed me, till I laughed as I lay under a
bush quite near.

"As the fire went down I got frightened. I ran
for the woods, with fire blazing in my eyes and
crackling in my ears. For hours I was all fire.
Then I went to sleep under the bracken. When I
woke it was evening. I had no mantle, was frozen
stiff. I was afraid to move, lest all the sores
of my back should be broken like thin ice. I
lay still until I could bear my hunger no longer.
I moved then to get used to the pain of
movement, when I began to hunt for food. There was
nothing to be found but hips.

"After wandering about till I was faint I dropped again
in the bracken. The boughs above me creaked with frost.
I started and looked round. The branches were like hair
among the starlight. My heart stood still. Again there was
a creak, creak, and suddenly a whoop, that whistled in
fading. I fell down in the bracken like dead wood.
Yet, by the peculiar whistling sound at the end, I
knew it was only the ice bending or tightening in
the frost. I was in the woods above the lake,
only two miles from the Manor. And yet, when the
lake whooped hollowly again, I clutched the frozen soil, every
one of my muscles as stiff as the stiff earth.
So all the night long I dare not move my
face, but pressed it flat down, and taut I lay
as if pegged down and braced.

"When morning came still I did not move, I lay
still in a dream. By afternoon my ache was such
it enlivened me. I cried, rocking my breath in the
ache of moving. Then again I became fierce. I beat
my hands on the rough bark to hurt them, so
that I should not ache so much. In such a
rage I was I swung my limbs to torture till
I fell sick with pain. Yet I fought the hurt,
fought it and fought by twisting and flinging myself, until
it was overcome. Then the evening began to draw on.
All day the sun had not loosened the frost. I
felt the sky chill again towards afternoon. Then I knew
the night was coming, and, remembering the great space I
had just come through, horrible so that it seemed to
have made me another man, I fled across the wood.

"But in my running I came upon the oak where
hanged five bodies. There they must hang, bar-stiff, night after
night. It was a terror worse than any. Turning, blundering
through the forest, I came out where the trees thinned,
where only hawthorns, ragged and shaggy, went down to the
lake's edge.

"The sky across was red, the ice on the water
glistened as if it were warm. A few wild geese
sat out like stones on the sheet of ice. I
thought of Martha. She was the daughter of the miller
at the upper end of the lake. Her hair was
red like beech leaves in a wind. When I had
gone often to the mill with the horses she had
brought me food.

"'I thought,' said I to her, ''twas a squirrel sat
on your shoulder. 'Tis your hair fallen loose.'

"'They call me the fox,' she said.

"'Would I were your dog,' said I. She would bring
me bacon and good bread, when I called at the
mill with the horses. The thought of cakes of bread
and of bacon made me reel as if drunk. I
had torn at the rabbit holes, I had chewed wood
all day. In such a dimness was my head that
I felt neither the soreness of my wounds nor the
cuts of thorns on my knees, but stumbled towards the
mill, almost past fear of man and death, panting with
fear of the darkness that crept behind me from trunk
to trunk.

"Coming to the gap in the wood, below which lay
the pond, I heard no sound. Always I knew the
place filled with the buzz of water, but now it
was silent. In fear of this stillness I ran forward,
forgetting myself, forgetting the frost. The wood seemed to pursue
me. I fell, just in time, down by a shed
wherein were housed the few wintry pigs. The miller came
riding in on his horse, and the barking of dogs
was for him. I heard him curse the day, curse
his servant, curse me, whom he had been out to
hunt, in his rage of wasted labour, curse all. As
I lay I heard inside the shed a sucking. Then
I knew that the sow was there, and that the
most of her sucking pigs would be already killed for
tomorrow's Christmas. The miller, from forethought to have young at
that time, made profit by his sucking pigs that were
sold for the mid-winter feast.

"When in a moment all was silent in the dusk,
I broke the bar and came into the shed. The
sow grunted, but did not come forth to discover me.
By and by I crept in towards her warmth. She
had but three young left, which now angered her, she
being too full of milk. Every now and again she
slashed at them and they squealed. Busy as she was
with them, I in the darkness advanced towards her. I
trembled so that scarce dared I trust myself near her,
for long dared not put my naked face towards her.
Shuddering with hunger and fear, I at last fed of
her, guarding my face with my arm. Her own full
young tumbled squealing against me, but she, feeling her ease,
lay grunting. At last I, too, lay drunk, swooning.

"I was roused by the shouting of the miller. He,
angered by his daughter who wept, abused her, driving her
from the house to feed the swine. She came, bowing
under a yoke, to the door of the shed. Finding
the pin broken she stood afraid, then, as the sow
grunted, she came cautiously in. I took her with my
arm, my hand over her mouth. As she struggled against
my breast my heart began to beat loudly. At last
she knew it was I. I clasped her. She hung
in my arms, turning away her face, so that I
kissed her throat. The tears blinded my eyes, I know
not why, unless it were the hurt of my mouth,
wounded by the horse, was keen.

"'They will kill you,' she whispered.

"'No,' I answered.

"And she wept softly. She took my head in her
arms and kissed me, wetting me with her tears, brushing
me with her keen hair, warming me through.

"'I will not go away from here,' I said. 'Bring
me a knife, and I will defend myself.'

"'No,' she wept. 'Ah, no!'

"When she went I lay down, pressing my chest where
she had rested on the earth, lest being alone were
worse emptiness than hunger.

"Later she came again. I saw her bend in the
doorway, a lanthorn hanging in front. As she peered under
the redness of her falling hair, I was afraid of
her. But she came with food. We sat together in
the dull light. Sometimes still I shivered and my throat
would not swallow.

"'If,' said I, 'I eat all this you have brought
me, I shall sleep till somebody finds me.'

"Then she took away the rest of the meat.

"'Why,' said I, 'should I not eat?' She looked at
me in tears of fear.

"'What?' I said, but still she had no answer. I
kissed her, and the hurt of my wounded mouth angered
me.

"'Now there is my blood,' said I, 'on your mouth.'
Wiping her smooth hand over her lips, she looked thereat,
then at me.

"'Leave me,' I said, 'I am tired.' She rose to
leave me.

"'But bring a knife,' I said. Then she held the
lanthorn near my face, looking as at a picture.

"'You look to me,' she said, 'like a stirk that
is roped for the axe. Your eyes are dark, but
they are wide open.'

"'Then I will sleep,' said I, 'but will not wake
too late.'

"'Do not stay here,' she said.

"'I will not sleep in the wood,' I answered, and
it was my heart that spoke, 'for I am afraid.
I had better be afraid of the voice of man
and dogs, than the sounds in the woods. Bring me
a knife, and in the morning I will go. Alone
will I not go now.'

"'The searchers will take you,' she said.

"'Bring me a knife,' I answered.

"'Ah, go,' she wept.

"'Not now--I will not--'

"With that she lifted the lanthorn, lit up her own
face and mine. Her blue eyes dried of tears. Then
I took her to myself, knowing she was mine.

"'I will come again,' she said.

"She went, and I folded my arms, lay down and
slept.

"When I woke, she was rocking me wildly to rouse
me.

"'I dreamed,' said I, 'that a great heap, as if
it were a hill, lay on me and above me.'

"She put a cloak over me, gave me a hunting-knife
and a wallet of food, and other things I did
not note. Then under her own cloak she hid the
lanthorn.

"'Let us go,' she said, and blindly I followed her.

"When I came out into the cold someone touched my
face and my hair.

"'Ha!' I cried, 'who now--?' Then she swiftly clung to
me, hushed me.

"'Someone has touched me,' I said aloud, still dazed with
sleep.

"'Oh hush!' she wept. ''Tis snowing.' The dogs within the
house began to bark. She fled forward, I after her.
Coming to the ford of the stream she ran swiftly
over, but I broke through the ice. Then I knew
where I was. Snowflakes, fine and rapid, were biting at
my face. In the wood there was no wind nor
snow.

"'Listen,' said I to her, 'listen, for I am locked
up with sleep.'

"'I hear roaring overhead,' she answered. 'I hear in the
trees like great bats squeaking.'

"'Give me your hand,' said I.

"We heard many noises as we passed. Once as there
uprose a whiteness before us, she cried aloud.

"'Nay,' said I, 'do not untie thy hand from mine,'
and soon we were crossing fallen snow. But ever and
again she started back from fear.

"'When you draw back my arm,' I said, angry, 'you
loosed a weal on my shoulder.'

"Thereafter she ran by my side, like a fawn beside
its mother.

"'We will cross the valley and gain the stream,' I
said. 'That will lead us on its ice as on
a path deep into the forest. There we can join
the outlaws. The wolves are driven from this part. They
have followed the driven deer.'

"We came directly on a large gleam that shaped itself
up among flying grains of snow.

"'Ah!' she cried, and she stood amazed.

"Then I thought we had gone through the bounds into
faery realm, and I was no more a man. How
did I know what eyes were gleaming at me between
the snow, what cunning spirits in the draughts of air?
So I waited for what would happen, and I forgot
her, that she was there. Only I could feel the
spirits whirling and blowing about me.

"Whereupon she clung upon me, kissing me lavishly, and, were
dogs or men or demons come upon us at that
moment, she had let us be stricken down, nor heeded
not. So we moved forward to the shadow that shone
in colours upon the passing snow. We found ourselves under
a door of light which shed its colours mixed with
snow. This Martha had never seen, nor I, this door
open for a red and brave issuing like fires. We
wondered.

"'It is faery,' she said, and after a while, 'Could
one catch such--Ah, no!'

"Through the snow shone bunches of red and blue.

"'Could one have such a little light like a red
flower--only a little, like a rose-berry scarlet on one's breast!--then
one were singled out as Our Lady.'

"I flung off my cloak and my burden to climb
up the face of the shadow. Standing on rims of
stone, then in pockets of snow, I reached upward. My
hand was red and blue, but I could not take
the stuff. Like colour of a moth's wing it was
on my hand, it flew on the increasing snow. I
stood higher on the head of a frozen man, reached
higher my hand. Then I felt the bright stuff cold.
I could not pluck it off. Down below she cried
to me to come again to her. I felt a
rib that yielded, I struck at it with my knife.
There came a gap in the redness. Looking through I
saw below as it were white stunted angels, with sad
faces lifted in fear. Two faces they had each, and
round rings of hair. I was afraid. I grasped the
shining red, I pulled. Then the cold man under me
sank, so I fell as if broken on to the
snow.

"Soon I was risen again, and we were running downwards
towards the stream. We felt ourselves eased when the smooth
road of ice was beneath us. For a while it
was resting, to travel thus evenly. But the wind blew
round us, the snow hung upon us, we leaned us
this way and that, towards the storm. I drew her
along, for she came as a bird that stems lifting
and swaying against the wind. By and by the snow
came smaller, there was not wind in the wood. Then
I felt nor labour, nor cold. Only I knew the
darkness drifted by on either side, that overhead was a
lane of paleness where a moon fled us before. Still,
I can feel the moon fleeing from me, can feel
the trees passing round me in slow dizzy reel, can
feel the hurt of my shoulder and my straight arm
torn with holding her. I was following the moon and
the stream, for I knew where the water peeped from
its burrow in the ground there were shelters of the
outlaw. But she fell, without sound or sign.

"I gathered her up and climbed the bank. There all
round me hissed the larchwood, dry beneath, and laced with
its dry-fretted cords. For a little way I carried her
into the trees. Then I laid her down till I
cut flat hairy boughs. I put her in my bosom
on this dry bed, so we swooned together through the
night. I laced her round and covered her with myself,
so she lay like a nut within its shell.

"Again, when morning came, it was pain of cold that
woke me. I groaned, but my heart was warm as
I saw the heap of red hair in my arms.
As I looked at her, her eyes opened into mine.
She smiled--from out of her smile came fear. As if
in a trap she pressed back her head.

"'We have no flint,' said I.

"'Yes--in the wallet, flint and steel and tinder box,' she
answered.

"'God yield you blessing,' I said.

"In a place a little open I kindled a fire
of larch boughs. She was afraid of me, hovering near,
yet never crossing a space.

"'Come,' said I, 'let us eat this food.'

"'Your face,' she said, 'is smeared with blood.'

"I opened out my cloak.

"'But come,' said I, 'you are frosted with cold.'

"I took a handful of snow in my hand, wiping
my face with it, which then I dried on my
cloak.

"'My face is no longer painted with blood, you are
no longer afraid of me. Come here then, sit by
me while we eat.'

"But as I cut the cold bread for her, she
clasped me suddenly, kissing me. She fell before me, clasped
my knees to her breast, weeping. She laid her face
down to my feet, so that her hair spread like
a fire before me. I wondered at the woman. 'Nay,'
I cried. At that she lifted her face to me
from below. 'Nay,' I cried, feeling my tears fall. With
her head on my breast, my own tears rose from
their source, wetting my cheek and her hair, which was
wet with the rain of my eyes.

"Then I remembered and took from my bosom the coloured
light of that night before. I saw it was black
and rough.

"'Ah,' said I, 'this is magic.'

"'The black stone!' she wondered.

"'It is the red light of the night before,' I
said.

"'It is magic,' she answered.

"'Shall I throw it?' said I, lifting the stone, 'shall
I throw it away, for fear?'

"'It shines!' she cried, looking up. 'It shines like the
eye of a creature at night, the eye of a
wolf in the doorway.'

"''Tis magic,' I said, 'let me throw it from us.'
But nay, she held my arm.

"'It is red and shining,' she cried.

"'It is a bloodstone,' I answered. 'It will hurt us,
we shall die in blood.'

"'But give it to me,' she answered.

"'It is red of blood,' I said.

"'Ah, give it to me,' she called.

"'It is my blood,' I said.

"'Give it,' she commanded, low.

"'It is my life-stone,' I said.

"'Give it me,' she pleaded.

"'I gave it her. She held it up, she smiled,
she smiled in my face, lifting her arms to me.
I took her with my mouth, her mouth, her white
throat. Nor she ever shrank, but trembled with happiness.

"What woke us, when the woods were filling again with
shadow, when the fire was out, when we opened our
eyes and looked up as if drowned, into the light
which stood bright and thick on the tree-tops, what woke
us was the sound of wolves. . . ."

"Nay," said the vicar, suddenly rising, "they lived happily ever
after."

"No," I said.