One day in July our Rochester club, leader in the
Eastern League, had returned to the hotel after winning a
double-header from the Syracuse club. For some occult reason there
was to be a lay-off next day and then on
the following another double-header. These double-headers we hated next to
exhibition games. Still a lay-off for twenty-four hours, at that
stage of the race, was a Godsend, and we received
the news with exclamations of pleasure.

After dinner we were all sitting and smoking comfortably in
front of the hotel when our manager, Merritt, came hurriedly
out of the lobby. It struck me that he appeared
a little flustered.

``Say, you fellars,'' he said brusquely. ``Pack your suits and
be ready for the bus at seven- thirty.''

For a moment there was a blank, ominous silence, while
we assimilated the meaning of his terse speech.

``I've got a good thing on for tomorrow,'' continued the
manager. ``Sixty per cent gate receipts if we win. That
Guelph team is hot stuff, though.''

``Guelph!'' exclaimed some of the players suspiciously. ``Where's Guelph?''

``It's in Canada. We'll take the night express an' get
there tomorrow in time for the game. An' we'll hev
to hustle.''

Upon Merritt then rained a multiplicity of excuses. Gillinger was
not well, and ought to have that day's rest. Snead's
eyes would profit by a lay-off. Deerfoot Browning was leading
the league in base running, and as his legs were
all bruised and scraped by sliding, a manager who was
not an idiot would have a care of such valuable
runmakers for his team. Lake had ``Charley- horse.'' Hathaway's arm
was sore. Bane's stomach threatened gastritis. Spike Doran's finger needed
a chance to heal. I was stale, and the other
players, three pitchers, swore their arms should be in the
hospital.

``Cut it out!'' said Merritt, getting exasperated. ``You'd all lay
down on me--now, wouldn't you? Well, listen to this: McDougal
pitched today; he doesn't go. Blake works Friday, he doesn't
go. But the rest of you puffed-up, high- salaried stiffs
pack your grips quick. See? It'll cost any fresh fellar
fifty for missin' the train.''

So that was how eleven of the Rochester team found
themselves moodily boarding a Pullman en route for Buffalo and
Canada. We went to bed early and arose late.

Guelph lay somewhere in the interior of Canada, and we
did not expect to get there until 1 o'clock.

As it turned out, the train was late; we had
to dress hurriedly in the smoking room, pack our citizen
clothes in our grips and leave the train to go
direct to the ball grounds without time for lunch.

It was a tired, dusty-eyed, peevish crowd of ball players
that climbed into a waiting bus at the little station.

We had never heard of Guelph; we did not care
anything about Rube baseball teams. Baseball was not play to
us; it was the hardest kind of work, and of
all things an exhibition game was an abomination.

The Guelph players, strapping lads, met us with every mark
of respect and courtesy and escorted us to the field
with a brass band that was loud in welcome, if
not harmonious in tune.

Some 500 men and boys trotted curiously along with us,
for all the world as if the bus were a
circus parade cage filled with striped tigers. What a rustic,
motley crowd massed about in and on that ball ground.
There must have been 10,000.

The audience was strange to us. The Indians, half-breeds, French-Canadians;
the huge, hulking, bearded farmers or traders, or trappers, whatever
they were, were new to our baseball experience.

The players themselves, however, earned the largest share of our
attention. By the time they had practiced a few moments
we looked at Merritt and Merritt looked at us.

These long, powerful, big-handed lads evidently did not know the
difference between lacrosse and baseball; but they were quick as
cats on their feet, and they scooped up the ball
in a way wonderful to see. And throw!--it made a
professional's heart swell just to see them line the ball
across the diamond.

``Lord! what whips these lads have!'' exclaimed Merritt. ``Hope we're
not up against it. If this team should beat us
we wouldn't draw a handful at Toronto. We can't afford
to be beaten. Jump around and cinch the game quick.
If we get in a bad place, I'll sneak in
the `rabbit.' ''

The ``rabbit'' was a baseball similar in appearance to the
ordinary league ball; under its horse- hide cover, however, it
was remarkably different.

An ingenious fan, a friend of Merritt, had removed the
covers from a number of league balls and sewed them
on rubber balls of his own making. They could not
be distinguished from the regular article, not even by an
experienced professional--until they were hit. Then! The fact that after
every bounce one of these rubber balls bounded swifter and
higher had given it the name of the ``rabbit.''

Many a game had the ``rabbit'' won for us at
critical stages. Of course it was against the rules of
the league, and of course every player in the league
knew about it; still, when it was judiciously and cleverly
brought into a close game, the ``rabbit'' would be in
play, and very probably over the fence, before the opposing
captain could learn of it, let alone appeal to the
umpire.

``Fellars, look at that guy who's goin' to pitch,'' suddenly
spoke up one of the team.

Many as were the country players whom we seasoned and
traveled professionals had run across, this twirler outclassed them for
remarkable appearance. Moreover, what put an entirely different tinge to
our momentary humor was the discovery that he was as
wild as a March hare and could throw a ball
so fast that it resembled a pea shot from a
boy's air gun.

Deerfoot led our batting list, and after the first pitched
ball, which he did not see, and the second, which
ticked his shirt as it shot past, he turned to
us with an expression that made us groan inwardly.

When Deerfoot looked that way it meant the pitcher was
dangerous. Deerfoot made no effort to swing at the next
ball, and was promptly called out on strikes.

I was second at bat, and went up with some
reluctance. I happened to be leading the league in both
long distance and safe hitting, and I doted on speed.
But having stopped many mean in- shoots with various parts
of my anatomy, I was rather squeamish about facing backwoods
yaps who had no control.

When I had watched a couple of his pitches, which
the umpire called strikes, I gave him credit for as
much speed as Rusie. These balls were as straight as
a string, singularly without curve, jump, or variation of any
kind. I lined the next one so hard at the
shortstop that it cracked like a pistol as it struck
his hands and whirled him half off his feet. Still
he hung to the ball and gave opportunity for the
first crash of applause.

``Boys, he's a trifle wild,'' I said to my team-
mates, ``but he has the most beautiful ball to hit
you ever saw. I don't believe he uses a curve,
and when we once time that speed we'll kill it.''

Next inning, after old man Hathaway had baffled the Canadians
with his wide, tantalizing curves, my predictions began to be
verified. Snead rapped one high and far to deep right
field. To our infinite surprise, however, the right fielder ran
with fleetness that made our own Deerfoot seem slow, and
he got under the ball and caught it.

Doran sent a sizzling grasscutter down toward left. The lanky
third baseman darted over, dived down, and, coming up with
the ball, exhibited the power of a throwing arm that
made as all green with envy.

Then, when the catcher chased a foul fly somewhere back
in the crowd and caught it, we began to take
notice.

``Lucky stabs!'' said Merritt cheerfully. ``They can't keep that up.
We'll drive him to the woods next time.''

But they did keep it up; moreover, they became more
brilliant as the game progressed. What with Hathaway's heady pitching
we soon disposed of them when at the bat; our
turns, however, owing to the wonderful fielding of these backwoodsmen,
were also fruitless.

Merritt, with his mind ever on the slice of gate
money coming if we won, began to fidget and fume
and find fault.

``You're a swell lot of champions, now, ain't you?'' he
observed between innings.

All baseball players like to bat, and nothing pleases them
so much as base hits; on the other hand, nothing
is quite so painful as to send out hard liners
only to see them caught. And it seemed as if
every man on our team connected with that lanky twirler's
fast high ball and hit with the force that made
the bat spring only to have one of these rubes
get his big hands upon it.

Considering that we were in no angelic frame of mind
before the game started, and in view of Merritt's persistently
increasing ill humor, this failure of ours to hit a
ball safely gradually worked us into a kind of frenzy.
From indifference we passed to determination, and from that to
sheer passionate purpose.

Luck appeared to be turning in the sixth inning. With
one out, Lake hit a beauty to right. Doran beat
an infield grounder and reached first. Hathaway struck out.

With Browning up and me next, the situation looked rather
precarious for the Canadians.

``Say, Deerfoot,'' whispered Merritt, ``dump one down the third-base line.
He's playin' deep. It's a pipe. Then the bases will
be full an' Reddy'll clean up.''

In a stage like that Browning was a man absolutely
to depend upon. He placed a slow bunt in the
grass toward third and sprinted for first. The third baseman
fielded the ball, but, being confused, did not know where
to throw it.

``Stick it in your basket,'' yelled Merritt, in a delight
that showed how hard he was pulling for the gate
money, and his beaming smile as he turned to me
was inspiring. ``Now, Reddy, it's up to you! I'm not
worrying about what's happened so far. I know, with you
at bat in a pinch, it's all off!''

Merritt's compliment was pleasing, but it did not augment my
purpose, for that already had reached the highest mark. Love
of hitting, if no other thing, gave me the thrilling
fire to arise to the opportunity. Selecting my light bat,
I went up and faced the rustic twirler and softly
said things to him.

He delivered the ball, and I could have yelled aloud,
so fast, so straight, so true it sped toward me.
Then I hit it harder than I had ever hit
a ball in my life. The bat sprung, as if
it were whalebone. And the ball took a bullet course
between center and left. So beautiful a hit was it
that I watched as I ran.

Out of the tail of my eye I saw the
center fielder running. When I rounded first base I got
a good look at this fielder, and though I had
seen the greatest outfielders the game ever produced, I never
saw one that covered ground so swiftly as he.

On the ball soared, and began to drop; on the
fielder sped, and began to disappear over a little hill
back of his position. Then he reached up with a
long arm and marvelously caught the ball in one hand.
He went out of sight as I touched second base,
and the heterogeneous crowd knew about a great play to
make more noise than a herd of charging buffalo.

In the next half inning our opponents, by clean drives,
scored two runs and we in our turn again went
out ignominiously. When the first of the eighth came we
were desperate and clamored for the ``rabbit.''

``I've sneaked it in,'' said Merritt, with a low voice.
``Got it to the umpire on the last passed ball.
See, the pitcher's got it now. Boys, it's all off
but the fireworks! Now, break loose!''

A peculiarity about the ``rabbit'' was the fact that though
it felt as light as the regulation league ball it
could not be thrown with the same speed and to
curve it was an impossibility.

Bane hit the first delivery from our hoosier stumbling block.
The ball struck the ground and began to bound toward
short. With every bound it went swifter, longer and higher,
and it bounced clear over the shortstop's head. Lake chopped
one in front of the plate, and it rebounded from
the ground straight up so high that both runners were
safe before it came down.

Doran hit to the pitcher. The ball caromed his leg,
scooted fiendishly at the second baseman, and tried to run
up all over him like a tame squirrel. Bases full!

Hathaway got a safe fly over the infield and two
runs tallied. The pitcher, in spite of the help of
the umpire, could not locate the plate for Balknap, and
gave him a base on balls. Bases full again!

Deerfoot slammed a hot liner straight at the second baseman,
which, striking squarely in his hands, recoiled as sharply as
if it had struck a wall. Doran scored, and still
the bases were filled.

The laboring pitcher began to get rattled; he could not
find his usual speed; he knew it, but evidently could
not account for it.

When I came to bat, indications were not wanting that
the Canadian team would soon be up in the air.
The long pitcher delivered the ``rabbit,'' and got it low
down by my knees, which was an unfortunate thing for
him. I swung on that one, and trotted round the
bases behind the runners while the center and left fielders
chased the ball.

Gillinger weighed nearly two hundred pounds, and he got all
his weight under the ``rabbit.'' It went so high that
we could scarcely see it. All the infielders rushed in,
and after staggering around, with heads bent back, one of
them, the shortstop, managed to get under it. The ``rabbit''
bounded forty feet out of his hands!

When Snead's grounder nearly tore the third baseman's leg off;
when Bane's hit proved as elusive as a flitting shadow;
when Lake's liner knocked the pitcher flat, and Doran's fly
leaped high out of the center fielder's glove--then those earnest,
simple, country ballplayers realized something was wrong. But they imagined
it was in themselves, and after a short spell of
rattles, they steadied up and tried harder than ever. The
motions they went through trying to stop that jumping jackrabbit
of a ball were ludicrous in the extreme.

Finally, through a foul, a short fly, and a scratch
hit to first, they retired the side and we went
into the field with the score 14 to 2 in
our favor.

But Merritt had not found it possible to get the
``rabbit'' out of play!

We spent a fatefully anxious few moments squabbling with the
umpire and captain over the ``rabbit.'' At the idea of
letting those herculean railsplitters have a chance to hit the
rubber ball we felt our blood run cold.

``But this ball has a rip in it,'' blustered Gillinger.
He lied atrociously. A microscope could not have discovered as
much as a scratch in that smooth leather.

``Sure it has,'' supplemented Merritt, in the suave tones of
a stage villain. ``We're used to playing with good balls.''

``Why did you ring this one in on us?'' asked
the captain. ``We never threw out this ball. We want
a chance to hit it.''

That was just the one thing we did not want
them to have. But fate played against us.

``Get up on your toes, now an' dust,'' said Merritt.
``Take your medicine, you lazy sit-in-front- of-the-hotel stiffs! Think of
pay day!''

Not improbably we all entertained the identical thought that old
man Hathaway was the last pitcher under the sun calculated
to be effective with the ``rabbit.'' He never relied on
speed; in fact, Merritt often scornfully accused him of being
unable to break a pane of glass; he used principally
what we called floaters and a change of pace. Both
styles were absolutely impractical with the ``rabbit.''

``It's comin' to us, all right, all right!'' yelled Deerfoot
to me, across the intervening grass. I was of the
opinion that it did not take any genius to make
Deerfoot's ominous prophecy.

Old man Hathaway gazed at Merritt on the bench as
if he wished the manager could hear what he was
calling him and then at his fellow- players as if
both to warn and beseech them. Then he pitched the
``rabbit.''

Crack!

The big lumbering Canadian rapped the ball at Crab Bane.
I did not see it, because it went so fast,
but I gathered from Crab's actions that it must have
been hit in his direction. At any rate, one of
his legs flopped out sidewise as if it had been
suddenly jerked, and he fell in a heap. The ball,
a veritable ``rabbit'' in its wild jumps, headed on for
Deerfoot, who contrived to stop it with his knees.

The next batter resembled the first one, and the hit
likewise, only it leaped wickedly at Doran and went through
his hands as if they had been paper. The third
man batted up a very high fly to Gillinger. He
clutched at it with his huge shovel hands, but he
could not hold it. The way he pounced upon the
ball, dug it out of the grass, and hurled it
at Hathaway, showed his anger.

Obviously Hathaway had to stop the throw, for he could
not get out of the road, and he spoke to
his captain in what I knew were no complimentary terms.

Thus began retribution. Those husky lads continued to hammer the
``rabbit'' at the infielders and as it bounced harder at
every bounce so they batted harder at every bat.

Another singular feature about the ``rabbit'' was the seeming impossibility
for professionals to hold it. Their familiarity with it, their
understanding of its vagaries and inconsistencies, their mortal dread made
fielding it a much more difficult thing than for their
opponents.

By way of variety, the lambasting Canadians commenced to lambast
a few over the hills and far away, which chased
Deerfoot and me until our tongues lolled out.

Every time a run crossed the plate the motley crowd
howled, roared, danced and threw up their hats. The members
of the batting team pranced up and down the side
lines, giving a splendid imitation of cannibals celebrating the occasion
of a feast.

Once Snead stooped down to trap the ``rabbit,'' and it
slipped through his legs, for which his comrades jeered him
unmercifully. Then a brawny batter sent up a tremendously high
fly between short and third.

``You take it!'' yelled Gillinger to Bane.

``You take it!'' replied the Crab, and actually walked backward.
That ball went a mile high. The sky was hazy,
gray, the most perplexing in which to judge a fly
ball. An ordinary fly gave trouble enough in the gauging.

Gillinger wandered around under the ball for what seemed an
age. It dropped as swiftly as a rocket shoots upward.
Gillinger went forward in a circle, then sidestepped, and threw
up his broad hands. He misjudged the ball, and it
hit him fairly on the head and bounced almost to
where Doran stood at second.

Our big captain wilted. Time was called. But Gillinger, when
he came to, refused to leave the game and went
back to third with a lump on his head as
large as a goose egg.

Every one of his teammates was sorry, yet every one
howled in glee. To be hit on the head was
the unpardonable sin for a professional.

Old man Hathaway gradually lost what little speed he had,
and with it his nerve. Every time he pitched the
``rabbit'' he dodged. That was about the funniest and strangest
thing ever seen on a ball field. Yet it had
an element of tragedy.

Hathaway's expert contortions saved his head and body on divers
occasions, but presently a low bounder glanced off the grass
and manifested an affinity for his leg.

We all knew from the crack and the way the
pitcher went down that the ``rabbit'' had put him out
of the game. The umpire called time, and Merritt came
running on the diamond.

``Hard luck, old man,'' said the manager. ``That'll make a
green and yellow spot all right. Boys, we're still two
runs to the good. There's one out, an' we can
win yet. Deerfoot, you're as badly crippled as Hathaway. The
bench for yours. Hooker will go to center, an' I'll
pitch.''

Merritt's idea did not strike us as a bad one.
He could pitch, and he always kept his arm in
prime condition. We welcomed him into the fray for two
reasons--because he might win the game, and because he might
be overtaken by the baseball Nemesis.

While Merritt was putting on Hathaway's baseball shoes, some of
us endeavored to get the ``rabbit'' away from the umpire,
but he was too wise.

Merritt received the innocent-looking ball with a look of mingled
disgust and fear, and he summarily ordered us to our
positions.

Not far had we gone, however, when we were electrified
by the umpire's sharp words:

``Naw! Naw, you don't. I saw you change the ball
I gave you fer one in your pocket! Naw! You
don't come enny of your American dodges on us! Gimmee
thet ball, an' you use the other, or I'll stop
the game.''

Wherewith the shrewd umpire took the ball from Merritt's hand
and fished the ``rabbit'' from his pocket. Our thwarted manager
stuttered his wrath. ``Y-you be-be-wh-whiskered y-yap! I'll g-g-give----''

What dire threat he had in mind never materialized, for
he became speechless. He glowered upon the cool little umpire,
and then turned grandly toward the plate.

It may have been imagination, yet I made sure Merritt
seemed to shrink and grow smaller before he pitched a
ball. For one thing the plate was uphill from the
pitcher's box, and then the fellow standing there loomed up
like a hill and swung a bat that would have
served as a wagon tongue. No wonder Merritt evinced nervousness.
Presently he whirled and delivered the ball.

Bing!

A dark streak and a white puff of dust over
second base showed how safe that hit was. By dint
of manful body work, Hooker contrived to stop the ``rabbit''
in mid-center. Another run scored. Human nature was proof against
this temptation, and Merritt's players tendered him manifold congratulations and
dissertations.

``Grand, you old skinflint, grand!''

``There was a two-dollar bill stickin' on thet hit. Why
didn't you stop it?''

``Say, Merritt, what little brains you've got will presently be
ridin' on the `rabbit.' ''

``You will chase up these exhibition games!''

``Take your medicine now. Ha! Ha! Ha!''

After these merciless taunts, and particularly after the next slashing
hit that tied the score, Merritt looked appreciably smaller and
humbler.

He threw up another ball, and actually shied as it
neared the plate.

The giant who was waiting to slug it evidently thought
better of his eagerness as far as that pitch was
concerned, for he let it go by.

Merritt got the next ball higher. With a mighty swing,
the batsman hit a terrific liner right at the pitcher.

Quick as lightning, Merritt wheeled, and the ball struck him
with the sound of two boards brought heavily together with
a smack.

Merritt did not fall; he melted to the ground and
writhed while the runners scored with more tallies than they
needed to win.

What did we care! Justice had been done us, and
we were unutterably happy. Crabe Bane stood on his head;
Gillinger began a war dance; old man Hathaway hobbled out
to the side lines and whooped like an Indian; Snead
rolled over and over in the grass. All of us
broke out into typical expressions of baseball frenzy, and individual
ones illustrating our particular moods.

Merritt got up and made a dive for the ball.
With face positively flaming he flung it far beyond the
merry crowd, over into a swamp. Then he limped for
the bench. Which throw ended the most memorable game ever
recorded to the credit of the ``rabbit.''