"Yes," said Miss Le Petyt, gazing into the deep fireplace
and letting her hands and her knitting lie for the
moment idle in her lap. "Oh, yes, I have seen
a ghost. In fact I have lived in a house
with one for quite a long time."

"How you could--" began one of my host's daughters; and
"You, Aunt Emily?" cried the other at the same moment.

Miss Le Petyt, gentle soul, withdrew her eyes from the
fireplace and protested with a gay little smile. "Well, my
dears, I am not quite the coward you take me
for. And, as it happens, mine was the most harmless
ghost in the world. In fact"--and here she looked at
the fire again-- "I was quite sorry to lose her."

"It was a woman, then? Now I think," said Miss
Blanche, "that female ghosts are the horridest of all. They
wear little shoes with high red heels, and go about
tap, tap, wringing their hands."

"This one wrung her hands, certainly. But I don't know
about the high red heels, for I never saw her
feet. Perhaps she was like the Queen of Spain, and
hadn't any. And as for the hands, it all depends
how you wring them. There's an elderly shop-walker at Knightsbridge,
for instance--"

"Don't be prosy, dear, when you know that we're just
dying to hear the story."

Miss Le Petyt turned to me with a small deprecating
laugh. "It's such a little one."

"The story, or the ghost?"

"Both."

And this was Miss Le Petyt's story:--

"It happened when I lived down in Cornwall, at Tresillack
on the south coast. Tresillack was the name of the
house, which stood quite alone at the head of a
coombe, within sound of the sea but without sight of
it; for though the coombe led down to a wide
open beach, it wound and twisted half a dozen times
on its way, and its overlapping sides closed the view
from the house, which was advertised as 'secluded.' I was
very poor in those days. Your father and all of
us were poor then, as I trust, my dears, you
will never be; but I was young enough to be
romantic and wise enough to like independence, and this word
'secluded' took my fancy.

"The misfortune was that it had taken the fancy, or
just suited the requirements, of several previous tenants. You know,
I dare say, the kind of person who rents a
secluded house in the country? Well, yes, there are several
kinds; but they seem to agree in being odious. No
one knows where they come from, though they soon remove
all doubt about where they're 'going to,' as the children
say. 'Shady' is the word, is it not? Well, the
previous tenants of Tresillack (from first to last a bewildering
series) had been shady with a vengeance.

"I knew nothing of this when I first made application
to the landlord, a solid yeoman inhabiting a farm at
the foot of the coombe, on a cliff overlooking the
beach. To him I presented myself fearlessly as a spinster
of decent family and small but assured income, intending a
rural life of combined seemliness and economy. He met my
advances politely enough, but with an air of suspicion which
offended me. I began by disliking him for it: afterwards
I set it down as an unpleasant feature in the
local character. I was doubly mistaken. Farmer Hosking was slow-witted,
but as honest a man as ever stood up against
hard times; and a more open and hospitable race than
the people on that coast I never wish to meet.
It was the caution of a child who had burnt
his fingers, not once but many times. Had I known
what I afterwards learned of Farmer Hosking's tribulations as landlord
of a 'secluded country residence,' I should have approached him
with the bashfulness proper to my suit and faltered as
I undertook to prove the bright exception in a long
line of painful experiences. He had bought the Tresillack estate
twenty years before--on mortgage, I fancy--because the land adjoined his
own and would pay him for tillage. But the house
was a nuisance, an incubus; and had been so from
the beginning.

"'Well, miss,' he said, 'you're welcome to look over it;
a pretty enough place, inside and out. There's no trouble
about keys, because I've put in a housekeeper, a widow-woman,
and she'll show you round. With your leave I'll step
up the coombe so far with you, and put you
in your way.' As I thanked him he paused and
rubbed his chin. 'There's one thing I must tell you,
though. Whoever takes the house must take Mrs. Carkeek along
with it.'

"'Mrs. Carkeek?' I echoed dolefully. 'Is that the housekeeper?'

"'Yes: she was wife to my late hind. I'm sorry,
miss,' he added, my face telling him no doubt what
sort of woman I expected Mrs. Carkeek to be; 'but
I had to make it a rule after--after some things
that happened. And I dare say you won't find her
so bad. Mary Carkeek's a sensible comfortable woman, and knows
the place. She was in service there to Squire Kendall
when he sold up and went: her first place it
was.'

"'I may as well see the house, anyhow,' said I
dejectedly. So we started to walk up the coombe. The
path, which ran beside a little chattering stream, was narrow
for the most part, and Farmer Hosking, with an apology,
strode on ahead to beat aside the brambles. But whenever
its width allowed us to walk side by side I
caught him from time to time stealing a shy inquisitive
glance under his rough eyebrows. Courteously though he bore himself,
it was clear that he could not sum me up
to his satisfaction or bring me square with his notion
of a tenant for his 'secluded country residence.'

"I don't know what foolish fancy prompted it, but about
halfway up the coombe I stopped short and asked:

"'There are no ghosts, I suppose?'

"It struck me, a moment after I had uttered it,
as a supremely silly question; but he took it quite
seriously. 'No; I never heard tell of any ghosts.' He
laid a queer sort of stress on the word. 'There's
always been trouble with servants, and maids' tongues will be
runnin'. But Mary Carkeek lives up there alone, and she
seems comfortable enough.'

"We walked on. By-and-by he pointed with his stick. 'It
don't look like a place for ghosts, now, do it?'

"Certainly it did not. Above an untrimmed orchard rose a
terrace of turf scattered with thorn-bushes, and above this a
terrace of stone, upon which stood the prettiest cottage I
had ever seen. It was long and low and thatched;
a deep verandah ran from end to end. Clematis, Banksia
roses and honeysuckle climbed the posts of this verandah, and
big blooms of the Marechal Niel were clustered along its
roof, beneath the lattices of the bedroom windows. The house
was small enough to be called a cottage, and rare
enough in features and in situation to confer distinction on
any tenant. It suggested what in those days we should
have called 'elegant' living. And I could have clapped my
hands for joy.

"My spirits mounted still higher when Mrs. Carkeek opened the
door to us. I had looked for a Mrs. Gummidge,
and I found a healthy middle-aged woman with a thoughtful
but contented face, and a smile which, without a trace
of obsequiousness, quite bore out the farmer's description of her.
She was a comfortable woman; and while we walked through
the rooms together (for Mr. Hosking waited outside) I 'took
to' Mrs. Carkeek. Her speech was direct and practical; the
rooms, in spite of their faded furniture, were bright and
exquisitely clean; and somehow the very atmosphere of the house
gave me a sense of well-being, of feeling at home
and cared for; yes, of being loved. Don't laugh, my
dears; for when I've done you may not think this
fancy altogether foolish.

"I stepped out into the verandah, and Farmer Hosking pocketed
the pruning-knife which he had been using on a bush
of jasmine.

"'This is better than anything I had dreamed of,' said
I.

"'Well, miss, that's not a wise way of beginning a
bargain, if you'll excuse me.'

"He took no advantage, however, of my admission; and we
struck the bargain as we returned down the coombe to
his farm, where the hired chaise waited to convey me
back to the market town. I had meant to engage
a maid of my own, but now it occurred to
me that I might do very well with Mrs. Carkeek.
This, too, was settled in the course of the next
day or two, and within the week I had moved
into my new home.

"I can hardly describe to you the happiness of my
first month at Tresillack; because (as I now believe) if
I take the reasons which I had for being happy,
one by one, there remains over something which I cannot
account for. I was moderately young, entirely healthy; I felt
myself independent and adventurous; the season was high summer, the
weather glorious, the garden in all the pomp of June,
yet sufficiently unkempt to keep me busy, give me a
sharp appetite for meals, and send me to bed in
that drowsy stupor which comes of the odours of earth.
I spent the most of my time out of doors,
winding up the day's work as a rule with a
walk down the cool valley, along the beach and back.

"I soon found that all housework could be safely left
to Mrs. Carkeek. She did not talk much; indeed her
only fault (a rare one in house-keepers) was that she
talked too little, and even when I addressed her seemed
at times unable to give me her attention. It was
as though her mind strayed off to some small job
she had forgotten, and her eyes wore a listening look,
as though she waited for the neglected task to speak
and remind her. But as a matter of fact she
forgot nothing. Indeed, my dears, I was never so well
attended to in my life.

"Well, that is what I'm coming to. That, so to
say, is just it. The woman not only had the
rooms swept and dusted, and my meals prepared to the
moment. In a hundred odd little ways this orderliness, these
preparations, seemed to read my desires. Did I wish the
roses renewed in a bowl upon the dining-table, sure enough
at the next meal they would be replaced by fresh
ones. Mrs. Carkeek (I told myself) must have surprised and
interpreted a glance of mine. And yet I could not
remember having glanced at the bowl in her presence. And
how on earth had she guessed the very roses, the
very shapes and colours I had lightly wished for? This
is only an instance, you understand. Every day, and from
morning to night, I happened on others, each slight enough,
but all together bearing witness to a ministering intelligence as
subtle as it was untiring.

"I am a light sleeper, as you know, with an
uncomfortable knack of waking with the sun and roaming early.
No matter how early I rose at Tresillack, Mrs. Carkeek
seemed to have prevented me. Finally I had to conclude
that she arose and dusted and tidied as soon as
she judged me safely a-bed. For once, finding the drawing-room
(where I had been sitting late) 'redded up' at four
in the morning, and no trace of a plate of
raspberries which I had carried thither after dinner and left
overnight, I determined to test her, and walked through to
the kitchen, calling her by name. I found the kitchen
as clean as a pin, and the fire laid, but
no trace of Mrs. Carkeek. I walked upstairs and knocked
at her door. At the second knock a sleepy voice
cried out, and presently the good woman stood before me
in her nightgown, looking (I thought) very badly scared.

"'No,' I said, 'it's not a burglar. But I've found
out what I wanted, that you do your morning's work
over night. But you mustn't wait for me when I
choose to sit up. And now go back to your
bed like a good soul, whilst I take a run
down to the beach.'

"She stood blinking in the dawn. Her face was still
white.

"'Oh, miss,' she gasped, 'I made sure you must have
seen something!'

"'And so I have,' I answered, 'but it was neither
burglars nor ghosts.'

"'Thank God!' I heard her say as she turned her
back to me in her grey bedroom--which faced the north.
And I took this for a carelessly pious expression and
ran downstairs, thinking no more of it.

"A few days later I began to understand.

"The plan of Tresillack house (I must explain) was simplicity
itself. To the left of the hall as you entered
was the dining-room; to the right the drawing-room, with a
boudoir beyond. The foot of the stairs faced the front
door, and beside it, passing a glazed inner door, you
found two others right and left, the left opening on
the kitchen, the right on a passage which ran by
a store-cupboard under the bend of the stairs to a
neat pantry with the usual shelves and linen-press, and under
the window (which faced north) a porcelain basin and brass
tap. On the first morning of my tenancy I had
visited this pantry and turned the tap; but no water
ran. I supposed this to be accidental. Mrs. Carkeek had
to wash up glass ware and crockery, and no doubt
Mrs. Carkeek would complain of any failure in the water
supply.

"But the day after my surprise visit (as I called
it) I had picked a basketful of roses, and carried
them into the pantry as a handy place to arrange
them in. I chose a china bowl and went to
fill it at the tap. Again the water would not
run.

"I called Mrs. Carkeek. 'What is wrong with this tap?'
I asked. 'The rest of the house is well enough
supplied.'

"'I don't know, miss. I never use it.'

"'But there must be a reason; and you must find
it a great nuisance washing up the plate and glasses
in the kitchen. Come around to the back with me,
and we'll have a look at the cisterns.'

"'The cisterns'll be all right, miss. I assure you I
don't find it a trouble.'

"But I was not to be put off. The back
of the house stood but ten feet from a wall
which was really but a stone face built against the
cliff cut away by the architect. Above the cliff rose
the kitchen garden, and from its lower path we looked
over the wall's parapet upon the cisterns. There were two--a
very large one, supplying the kitchen and the bathroom above
the kitchen; and a small one, obviously fed by the
other, and as obviously leading, by a pipe which I
could trace, to the pantry. Now the big cistern stood
almost full, and yet the small one, though on a
lower level, was empty.

"'It's as plain as daylight,' said I. 'The pipe between
the two is choked.' And I clambered on to the
parapet.

"'I wouldn't, miss. The pantry tap is only cold water,
and no use to me. From the kitchen boiler I
gets it hot, you see.'

"'But I want the pantry water for my flowers.' I
bent over and groped. 'I thought as much!' said I,
as I wrenched out a thick plug of cork and
immediately the water began to flow. I turned triumphantly on
Mrs. Carkeek, who had grown suddenly red in the face.
Her eyes were fixed on the cork in my hand.
To keep it more firmly wedged in its place somebody
had wrapped it round with a rag of calico print;
and, discoloured though the rag was, I seemed to recall
the pattern (a lilac sprig). Then, as our eyes met,
it occurred to me that only two mornings before Mrs.
Carkeek had worn a print gown of that same sprigged
pattern.

"I had the presence of mind to hide this very
small discovery, sliding over it some quite trivial remark; and
presently Mrs. Carkeek regained her composure. But I own I
felt disappointed in her. It seemed such a paltry thing
to be disingenuous over. She had deliberately acted a fib
before me; and why? Merely because she preferred the kitchen
to the pantry tap. It was childish. 'But servants are
all the same,' I told myself. 'I must take Mrs.
Carkeek as she is; and, after all, she is a
treasure.'

"On the second night after this, and between eleven and
twelve o'clock, I was lying in bed and reading myself
sleepy over a novel of Lord Lytton's, when a small
sound disturbed me. I listened. The sound was clearly that
of water trickling; and I set it down to rain.
A shower (I told myself) had filled the water-pipes which
drained the roof. Somehow I could not fix the sound.
There was a water pipe against the wall just outside
my window. I rose and drew up the blind.

"To my astonishment no rain was falling; no rain had
fallen. I felt the slate window-sill; some dew had gathered
there--no more. There was no wind, no cloud: only a
still moon high over the eastern slope of the coombe,
the distant plash of waves, and the fragrance of many
roses. I went back to bed and listened again. Yes,
the trickling sound continued, quite distinct in the silence of
the house, not to be confused for a moment with
the dull murmur of the beach. After a while it
began to grate on my nerves. I caught up my
candle, flung my dressing-gown about me, and stole softly downstairs.

"Then it was simple. I traced the sound to the
pantry. 'Mrs. Carkeek has left the tap running,' said I:
and, sure enough, I found it so--a thin trickle steadily
running to waste in the porcelain basin. I turned off
the tap, went contentedly back to my bed, and slept.

"--for some hours. I opened my eyes in darkness, and
at once knew what had awakened me. The tap was
running again. Now it had shut easily in my hand,
but not so easily that I could believe it had
slipped open again of its own accord. 'This is Mrs.
Carkeek's doing,' said I; and am afraid I added 'Bother
Mrs. Carkeek!'

"Well, there was no help for it: so I struck
a light, looked at my watch, saw that the hour
was just three o'clock, and descended the stairs again. At
the pantry door I paused. I was not afraid--not one
little bit. In fact the notion that anything might be
wrong had never crossed my mind. But I remember thinking,
with my hand on the door, that if Mrs. Carkeek
were in the pantry I might happen to give her
a severe fright.

"I pushed the door open briskly. Mrs. Carkeek was not
there. But something was there, by the porcelain basin--something which
might have sent me scurrying upstairs two steps at a
time, but which as a matter of fact held me
to the spot. My heart seemed to stand still--so still!
And in the stillness I remember setting down the brass
candlestick on a tall nest of drawers beside me.

"Over the porcelain basin and beneath the water trickling from
the tap I saw two hands.

"That was all--two small hands, a child's hands. I cannot
tell you how they ended.

"No: they were not cut off. I saw them quite
distinctly: just a pair of small hands and the wrists,
and after that--nothing. They were moving briskly--washing themselves clean. I
saw the water trickle and splash over them--not through them--but
just as it would on real hands. They were the
hands of a little girl, too. Oh, yes, I was
sure of that at once. Boys and girls wash their
hands differently. I can't just tell you what the difference
is, but it's unmistakable.

"I saw all this before my candle slipped and fell
with a crash. I had set it down without looking--for
my eyes were fixed on the basin--and had balanced it
on the edge of the nest of drawers. After the
crash, in the darkness there, with the water running, I
suffered some bad moments. Oddly enough, the thought uppermost with
me was that I must shut off that tap before
escaping. I had to. And after a while I picked
up all my courage, so to say, between my teeth,
and with a little sob thrust out my hand and
did it. Then I fled.

"The dawn was close upon me: and as soon as
the sky reddened I took my bath, dressed and went
downstairs. And there at the pantry door I found Mrs.
Carkeek, also dressed, with my candlestick in her hand.

"'Ah!' said I, 'you picked it up.'

"Our eyes met. Clearly Mrs. Carkeek wished me to begin,
and I determined at once to have it out with
her.

"'And you knew all about it. That's what accounts for
your plugging up the cistern.'

"'You saw? . . .' she began.

"'Yes, yes. And you must tell me all about it--never
mind how bad. Is--is it--murder?'

"'Law bless you, miss, whatever put such horrors in your
head?'

"'She was washing her hands.'

"'Ah, so she does, poor dear! But--murder! And dear little
Miss Margaret, that wouldn't go to hurt a fly!'

"'Miss Margaret?'

"'Eh, she died at seven year. Squire Kendall's only daughter;
and that's over twenty year ago. I was her nurse,
miss, and I know-- diphtheria it was; she took it
down in the village.'

"'But how do you know it is Margaret?'

"'Those hands--why, how could I mistake, that used to be
her nurse?'

"'But why does she wash them?'

"'Well, miss, being always a dainty child--and the house-work, you
see--'

"I took a long breath. 'Do you mean to tell
me that all this tidying and dusting--' I broke off.
'Is it she who has been taking this care of
me?'

"Mrs. Carkeek met my look steadily.

"'Who else, miss?'

"'Poor little soul!'

"'Well now'--Mrs. Carkeek rubbed my candlestick with the edge of
her apron--'I'm so glad you take it like this. For
there isn't really nothing to be afraid of--is there?' She
eyed me wistfully. 'It's my belief she loves you, miss.
But only to think what a time she must have
had with the others!'

"'The others?' I echoed.

"'The other tenants, miss: the ones afore you.'

"'Were they bad?'

"'They was awful. Didn't Farmer Hosking tell you? They carried
on fearful--one after another, and each one worse than the
last."

"'What was the matter with them? Drink?'

"'Drink, miss, with some of 'em. There was the Major--he
used to go mad with it, and run about the
coombe in his nightshirt. Oh, scandalous! And his wife drank
too--that is, if she ever was his wife. Just think
of that tender child washing Up after their nasty doings!'

"I shivered.

"'But that wasn't the worst, miss--not by a long way.
There was a pair here--from the colonies, or so they
gave out--with two children, a boy and gel, the eldest
scarce six. Poor mites!'

"'Why, what happened?'

"'They beat those children, miss--your blood would boil!--and starved, and
tortured 'em, it's my belief. You could hear their screams,
I've been told, away back in the high-road, and that's
the best part of half a mile. Sometimes they was
locked up without food for days together. But it's my
belief that little Miss Margaret managed to feed them somehow.
Oh, I can see her, creeping to the door and
comforting!'

"'But perhaps she never showed herself when these awful people
were here, but took to flight until they left.'

"'You didn't never know her, miss. The brave she was!
She'd have stood up to lions. She've been here all
the while: and only to think what her innocent eyes
and ears must have took in! There was another couple--'
Mrs. Carkeek sunk her voice.

"'Oh, hush!' said I, 'if I'm to have any peace
of mind in this house!'

"'But you won't go, miss? She loves you, I know
she do. And think what you might be leaving her
to--what sort of tenant might come next. For she can't
go. She've been here ever since her father sold the
place. He died soon after. You musn't go!'

"Now I had resolved to go, but all of a
sudden I felt how mean this resolution was.

"'After all,' said I, 'there's nothing to be afraid of.'

"'That's it, miss; nothing at all. I don't even believe
it's so very uncommon. Why, I've heard my mother tell
of farmhouses where the rooms were swept every night as
regular as clockwork, and the floors sanded, and the pots
and pans scoured, and all while the maids slept. They
put it down to the piskies; but we know better,
miss, and now we've got the secret between us we
can lie easy in our beds, and if we hear
anything, say "God bless the child!" and go to sleep.'

"'Mrs. Carkeek,' said I, 'there's only one condition I have
to make.'

"'What's that?'

"'Why, that you let me kiss you.'

"'Oh, you dear!' said Mrs. Carkeek as we embraced: and
this was as close to familiarity as she allowed herself
to go in the whole course of my acquaintance with
her.

"I spent three years at Tresillack, and all that while
Mrs. Carkeek lived with me and shared the secret. Few
women, I dare to say, were ever so completely wrapped
around with love as we were during those three years.
It ran through my waking life like a song: it
smoothed my pillow, touched and made my table comely, in
summer lifted the heads of the flowers as I passed,
and in winter watched the fire with me and kept
it bright.

"'Why did I ever leave Tresillack?' Because one day, at
the end of five years, Farmer Hosking brought me word
that he had sold the house--or was about to sell
it; I forget which. There was no avoiding it, at
any rate; the purchaser being a Colonel Kendall, a brother
of the old Squire.'

"'A married man?' I asked.

"'Yes, miss; with a family of eight. As pretty children
as ever you see, and the mother a good lady.
It's the old home to Colonel Kendall.'

"'I see. And that is why you feel bound to
sell.'

"'It's a good price, too, that he offers. You mustn't
think but I'm sorry enough--'

"'To turn me out? I thank you, Mr. Hosking; but
you are doing the right thing.'

"Since Mrs. Carkeek was to stay, the arrangement lacked nothing
of absolute perfection--except, perhaps, that it found no room for
me.

"'She--Margaret-will be happy,' I said; 'with her cousins, you know.'

"'Oh yes, miss, she will be happy, sure enough,' Mrs.
Carkeek agreed.

"So when the time came I packed up my boxes,
and tried to be cheerful. But on the last morning,
when they stood corded in the hall, I sent Mrs.
Carkeek upstairs upon some poor excuse, and stepped alone into
the pantry.

"'Margaret!' I whispered.

"There was no answer at all. I had scarcely dared
to hope for one. Yet I tried again, and, shutting
my eyes this time, stretched out both hands and whispered:

"'Margaret!'

"And I will swear to my dying day that two
little hands stole and rested--for a moment only--in mine."