It was an ancient diary in a faded leather cover.
The writing was fine and delicate, and the ink yellow
with age. Sir Henry Marquis turned the pages slowly and
with care for the paper was fragile.

We had dined early at the Ritz and come in
later to his great home in St. James's Square.

He wished to show me this old diary that had
come to him from a branch of his mother's family
in Virginia - a branch that had gone out with
a King's grant when Virginia was a crown colony. The
collateral ancestor, Pendleton, had been a justice of the peace
in Virginia, and a spinster daughter had written down some
of the strange cases with which her father had been
concerned.

Sir Henry Marquis believed that these cases in their tragic
details, and their inspirational, deductive handling, equaled any of our
modern time. The great library overlooking St. James' Square, was
curtained off from London. Sir Henry read by the fire;
and I listened, returned, as by some recession of time
to the Virginia of a vanished decade. The narrative of
the diary follows:

My father used to say that the Justice of God
was sometimes swift and terrible. He said we thought of
it usually as remote and deliberate, a sort of calm
adjustment in some supernatural Court of Equity. But this idea
was far from the truth. He had seen the justice
of God move on the heels of a man with
appalling swiftness; with a crushing force and directness that simply
staggered the human mind. I know the case he thought
about.

Two men sat over a table when my father entered.
One of them got up. He was a strange human
creature, when you stood and looked calmly at him. You
thought the Artificer had designed him for a priest of
the church. He had the massive features and the fringe
of hair around his bald head like a tonsure. At
first, to your eye, it was the vestments of the
church, he lacked; then you saw that the lack was
something fundamental; something organic in the nature of the man.
And as he held and stimulated your attention you got
a fearful idea, that the purpose for which this human
creature was shaped had been somehow artfully reversed!

He was big boned and tall when he stood up.

"Pendleton," he said, "I would have come to you, but
for my guest."

And he indicated the elegant young man at the table.

"But I did not send you word to ride a
dozen miles through the hills on any trivial business, or
out of courtesy to me. It is a matter of
some import, so I will pay ten eagles."

My father looked steadily at the man.

"I am not for hire," he said.

My father was a justice of the peace in Virginia,
under the English system, by the theory of which the
most substantial men in a county undertook to keep the
peace for the welfare of the State. Like Washington in
the service of the Colonial army, he took no pay.

The big man laughed.

"We are most of us for purchase, and all of
us for hire," he said. "I will make it twenty!"

The young man at the table now interrupted. He was
elegant in the costume of the time, in imported linen
and cloth from an English loom. His hair was thick
and black; his eyebrows straight, his body and his face
rich in the blood and the vitalities of youth. But
sensuality was on him like a shadow. The man was
given over to a life of pleasure.

"Mr. Pendleton," he said, with a patronizing pedantic air, "the
commonwealth is interested to see that litigation does not arise;
and to that end, I hope you will not refuse
us the benefit of your experience. We are about to
draw up a deed of sale running into a considerable
sum, and we would have it court proof."

He made a graceful gesture with his jeweled hand.

"I would be secure in my purchase, and Zindorf in
his eagles, and you, Sir, in the knowledge that the
State will not be vexed by any suit between us.
Every contract, I believe, upon some theory of the law,
is a triangular affair with the State a party. Let
us say then, that you represent Virginia!"

"In the service of the commonwealth," replied my father coldly,
"I am always to be commanded."

The man flicked a bit of dust from his immaculate
coat sleeve.

"It will be a conference of high powers. I shall
represent Eros; Mr. Pendleton, Virginia; and Zindorf" and he laughed
- "his Imperial Master!"

And to the eye the three men fitted to their
legend. The Hellenic God of pleasure in his sacred groves
might have chosen for his disciple one from Athens with
a face and figure like this youth. My father bore
the severities of the law upon him. And I have
written how strange a creature the third party to this
conference was.

He now answered with an oath.

"You have a very pretty wit, Mr. Lucian Morrow," he
said. "I add to my price a dozen eagles for
it."

The young man shrugged his shoulders in his English coat.

"Smart money, eh, Zindorf . . . Well, it does
not make me smart. It only makes me remember that
Count Augsburg educated you in Bavaria for the Church and
you fled away from it to be a slave trader
in Virginia."

He got on his feet, and my father saw that
the man was in liquor. He was not drunken, but
the effect was on him with its daring and its
indiscretions.

It was an April morning, bright with sun. The world
was white with apple blossoms, the soft air entered through
the great open windows. And my father thought that the
liquor in the man had come with him out of
a night of bargaining or revel.

Morrow put his hands on the table and looked at
Zindorf ; then, suddenly, the laughter in his face gave
way to the comprehension of a swift, striking idea.

"Why, man," he cried, "it's the devil's truth! Everything about
you is a negation! You ought to be a priest
by all the lines and features of you; but you're
not. . . Scorch me, but you're not!"

His voice went up on the final word as though
to convey some impressive, sinister discovery.

It was true in every aspect of the man. The
very clothes he wore, somber, wool-threaded homespun, crudely patched, reminded
one of the coarse fabrics that monks affect for their
abasement. But one saw, when one remembered the characteristic of
the man, that they represented here only an extremity of
avarice.

Zindorf looked coldly at his guest.

"Mr. Lucian Morrow," he said, "you will go on, and
my price will go on!"

But the young blood, on his feet, was not brought
up by the monetary threat. He looked about the room,
at the ceiling, the thick walls. And, like a man
who by a sudden recollection confounds his adversary with an
overlooked illustrative fact, he suddenly cried out

"By the soul of Satan, you're housed to suit! Send
me to the pit! It's the very place for you!
Eh! Zindorf, do you know who built the house you
live in?"

"I do not, Mr. Lucian Morrow," said the man. "Who
built it?"

One could see that he wished to divert the discourses
of his guest. He failed.

"God built it!" cried Morrow.

He put out his hands as though to include the
hose.

"Pendleton," he said, "you will remember. The people built these
walls for a church. It burned, but the stone walls
could not burn; they remained overgrown with creeper. Then, finally,
old Wellington Monroe built a house into the walls for
the young wife he was about to marry, but he
went to the coffin instead of the bride-bed, and the
house stood empty. It fell into the courts with the
whole of Monroe's tangled business and finally Zindorf gets it
at a sheriff's sale."

The big man now confronted the young blood with decision.

"Mr. Lucian Morrow," he said, "if you are finished with
your fool talk, I will bid you good. morning. I
have decided not to sell the girl."

The face of Morrow changed. His voice wheedled in an
anxious note.

"Not sell her, Zindorf!" he echoed. "Why man, you have
promised her to me all along. You always said I
should have her in spite of your cursed partner Ordez.
You said you'd get her some day and sell her
to me. Now, curse it, Zindorf, I want her .
. . I've got the money: ten thousand dollars. It's
a big lot of money. But I've got it. I've
got it in gold."

He went on:

"Besides, Zindorf, you can have the money, it'll mean more
to you. But it's the girl I want."

He stood up and in his anxiety the effect of
the liquor faded out.

"I've waited on your promise, Zindorf. You said that some
day, when Ordez was hard-pressed he would sell her for
money, even if she was his natural daughter. You were
right; you knew Ordez. You have got an assignment of
all the slaves in possession, in the partnership, and Ordez
has cleared out of the country. I know what you
paid for his half-interest in this business, it's set out
in the assignment. It was three thousand dollars.

"Think of it, man, three thousand dollars to Ordez for
a wholesale, omnibus assignment of everything. An elastic legal note
of an assignment that you can stretch to include this
girl along with the half-dozen other slaves that you have
on hand here; and I offer you ten thousand dollars
for the girl alone!"

One could see how the repetition of the sum in
gold affected Zindorf.

He had the love of money in that dominating control
that the Apostle spoke of. But the elegant young man
was moved by a lure no less potent. And his
anxiety, for the time, suppressed the evidences of liquor.

"I'll take the risk on the title, Zindorf. You and
Ordez were partners in this traffic. Ordez gives you a
general assignment of all slaves on hand for three thousand
dollars and lights out of the country. He leaves his
daughter here among the others. And this general assignment can
be construed to include her. Her mother was a slave
and that brings her within the law. We know precisely
who her mother was, and all about it. You looked
it up and my lawyer, Mr. Cable, looked it up.
Her mother was the octoroon woman, Suzanne, owned by old
Judge Marquette in New Orleans.

"There may have been some sort of church marriage, but
there's no legal record, Cable says.

"The woman belonged to Marquette, and under the law the
girl is a slave. You got a paper title out
of Marquette's executors, privily, years ago. Now you have this
indefinite assignment by Ordez. He's gone to the Spanish Islands,
or the devil, or both. And if Mr. Pendleton can
draw a deed of sale that will stand in the
courts between us, I'll take the risk on the validity
of my title."

He paused.

"The law's sound on slaves, Judge Madison has a dozen
himself, not all black either; not three-eighths black!" and he
laughed.

Then he turned to my father.

"Mr. Pendleton," he said, "I persuaded Zindorf to send for
you to draw up this deed of sale. I have
no confidence in the little practicing tricksters at the county
seat. They take a fee and, with premeditation, write a
word or phrase into the contract that leaves it open
for a suit at law."

He made a courteous bow, accompanied by a dancing master's
gesture.

"I do not offend you with the offer of a
fee, but I present my gratitude for the conspicuous courtesy,
and I indicate the service to the commonwealth of legal
papers in form and court proof. May I hope, Sir,
that you will not deny us the benefit of your
highly distinguished service."

My father very slowly looked about him in calm reflection.

He had ridden ten miles through the hills on this
April morning, at Zindorf's message sent the night before. The
clay of the roads was still damp and plastic from
the recent rain. There were flecks of mud on him
and the splashing of the streams.

He was a big, dominating man, in the hardened strength
and experience of middle life. He had come, as he
believed, upon some service of the state. And here was
a thing for the little dexterities of a lawyer's clerk.
Everybody in Virginia, who knew my father, can realize how
he was apt to meet the vague message of Zindorf
that got him in this house, and the patronizing courtesies
of Mr. Lucian Morrow.

He was direct and virile, and while he feared God,
like the great figures in the Pentateuch, as though he
were a judge of Israel enforcing his decrees with the
weapon of iron, I cannot write here, that at any
period of his life, or for any concern or reason,
he very greatly regarded man.

He went over to the window and looked out at
the hills and the road that he had traveled.

The mid-morning sun was on the fields and groves like
a benediction. The soft vitalizing air entered and took up
the stench of liquor, the ash of tobacco and the
imported perfumes affected by Mr. Lucian Morrow.

The windows in the room were long, gothic like a
church, and turning on a pivot. They ran into the
ceiling that Monroe had built across the gutted walls. The
house stood on the crown of a hill, in a
cluster of oak trees. Below was the abandoned graveyard, the
fence about it rotted down; the stone slabs overgrown with
moss. The four roads running into the hills joined and
crossed below this oak grove that the early people had
selected for a house of God.

My father looked out on these roads and far back
on the one that he had traveled.

There was no sound in the world, except the faint
tolling of a bell in a distant wood on the
road. It was far off on the way to my
father's house, and the vague sound was to be heard
only when a breath of wind carried from that way.

My father gathered his big chin, flat like a plowshare,
into the trough of his bronze hand. He stood for
some moments in reflection, then he turned to Mr. Lucian
Morrow.

"I think you are right," he said. "I think this
is a triangular affair with the state a party. I
am in the service of the state. Will you kindly
put the table by this window."

They thought he wished the air, and would thus escape
the closeness of the room. And while my father stood
aside, Zindorf and his guest carried the flat writing table
to the window and placed a chair.

My father sat down behind the table by the great
open window, and looked at Zindorf.

The man moved and acted like a monk. He had
the figure and the tonsured head. His coarse, patched clothes
cut like the homely garments of the simple people of
the day, were not wholly out of keeping to the
part. The idea was visualized about him; the simplicity and
the poverty of the great monastic orders in their vast,
noble humility. All striking and real until one saw his
face!

My father used to say that the great orders of
God were correct in this humility; for in its vast,
comprehensive action, the justice of God moved in a great
plain, where every indicatory event was precisely equal; a straw
was a weaver's beam.

God hailed men to ruin in his court, not with
spectacular devices, but by means of some homely, common thing,
as though to abase and overcome our pride.

My father moved the sheets of foolscap, and tested the
point of the quill pen like one who considers with
deliberation. He dipped the point into the inkpot and slowly
wrote a dozen formal words.

Then he stopped and put down the pen.

"The contests of the courts," he said, "are usually on
the question of identity. I ought to see this slave
for a correct description."

The two men seemed for a moment uncertain what to
do.

Then Zindorf addressed my father.

"Pendleton," he said, "the fortunes of life change, and the
ideas suited to one status are ridiculous in another. Ordez
was a fool. He made believe to this girl a
future that he never intended, and she is under the
glamor of these fancies."

He stood in the posture of a monk, and he
spoke each word with a clear enunciation.

"It is a very delicate affair, to bring this girl
out of the extravagances with which Ordez filled her idle
head, and not be brutal in it. We must conduct
the thing with tact, and we will ask you, Pendleton,
to observe the courtesies of our pretension."

When he had finished, he flung a door open and
went down a stairway. For a time my father heard
his footsteps, echoing, like those of a priest in the
under chambers of a chapel. Then he ascended, and my
father was astonished.

He came with a young girl on his arm, as
in the ceremony of marriage sometimes the priest emerges with
the bride. The girl was young and of a Spanish
beauty. She was all in white with blossoms in her
hair. And she was radiant, my father said, as in
the glory of some happy contemplation. There was no slave
like this on the block in Virginia. Young girls like
this, my father had seen in Havana in the houses
of Spanish Grandees.

"This is Mr. Pendleton, our neighbor," Zindorf said. "He comes
to offer you his felicitations."

The girl made a little formal curtsy.

"When my father returns," she said in a queer, liquid
accent, "he will thank you, Meester Pendleton; just now he
is on a journey."

And she gave her hand to Lucian Morrow to kiss,
like a lady of the time. Then Zindorf, mincing his
big step, led her out.

And my father stood behind the table in the enclosure
of the window, with his arms folded, and his chin
lifted above his great black stock. I know how my
father looked, for I have seen him stand like that
before moving factors in great events, when he intended, at
a certain cue, to enter.

He said that it was at this point that Mr.
Lucian Morrow's early comment on Zindorf seemed, all at once,
to discover the nature of this whole affair. He said
that suddenly, with a range of vision like the great
figures in the Pentateuch, he saw how things right and
true would work out backward into abominations, if, by any
chance, the virtue of God in events were displaced!

Zindorf returned, and as he stepped through the door, closing
it behind him, the far-off tolling of the bell, faint,
eerie, carried by a stronger breath of April air, entered
through the window. My father extended his arm toward the
distant wood.

"Zindorf," he said, "do you mark the sign?" The man
listened.

"What sign?" he said.

"The sign of death!" replied my father.

The man made a deprecating gesture with his hands, "I
do not believe in signs," he said.

My father replied like one corrected by a memory.

"Why, yes," he said, "that is true. I should have
remembered that. You do not believe in signs, Zindorf, since
you abandoned the sign of the cross, and set these
coarse patches on your knees to remind you not to
bend them in the sign of submission to the King
of Kings."

The intent in the mended clothing was the economy of
avarice, but my father turned it to his use.

The man's face clouded with anger.

"What I believe," he said, "is neither the concern of
you nor another."

He paused with an oath.

"Whatever you may believe, Zindorf," replied my father, "the sound
of that bell is unquestionably a sign of death." He
pointed toward the distant wood. "In the edge of the
forest yonder is the ancient church that the people built
to replace the burned one here. It has been long
abandoned, but in its graveyard lie a few old families.
And now and then, when an old man dies, they
bring him back to put him with his fathers. This
morning, as I came along, they were digging the grave
for old Adam Duncan, and the bell tolls for him.
So you see," and he looked Zindorf in the face,
"a belief in signs is justified."

Again the big man made his gesture as of one
putting something of no importance out of the way.

"Believe what you like," he said, "I am not concerned
with signs."

"Why, yes, Zindorf," replied my father, "of all men you
are the very one most concerned about them. You must
be careful not to use the wrong ones."

It was a moment of peculiar tension.

The room was flooded with sun. The tiny creatures of
the air droned outside. Everywhere was peace and the gentle
benevolence of peace. But within this room, split off from
the great chamber of a church, events covert and sinister
seemed preparing to assemble.

My father, big and dominant, was behind the table, his
great shoulders blotting out the window;

Mr. Lucian Morrow sat doubled in a chair, and Zindorf
stood with the closed door behind him.

"You see, Zindorf," he said, "each master has his set
of signs. Most of us have learned the signs of
one master only. But you have learned the signs of
both. And you must be careful not to bring the
signs of your first master into the service of your
last one."

The big man did not move, he stood with the
door closed behind him, and studied my father's face like
one who feels the presence of a danger that he
cannot locate.

"What do you mean?" he said.

"I mean," replied my father, "I mean, Zindorf, that each
master has a certain intent in events, and this intent
is indicated by his set of signs. Now the great
purpose of these two masters, we believe, in all the
moving of events, is directly opposed. Thus, when we use
a sign of one of these masters, we express by
the symbol of it the hope that events will take
the direction of his established purpose.

"Don't you see then . . . don't you see,
that we dare not use the signs of one in
the service of the other?"

"Pendleton," said the man, "I do not understand you."

He spoke slowly and precisely, like one moving with an
excess of care.

My father went on, his voice strong and level, his
eyes on Zindorf.

"The thing is a great mystery," he said. "It is
not clear to any of us in its causes or
its relations. But old legends and old beliefs, running down
from the very morning of the world, tell us -
warn us, Zindorf - that the signs of each of
these masters are abhorrent to the other. Neither will tolerate
the use of his adversary's sign. Moreover, Zindorf, there is
a double peril in it."

And his voice rose.

"There is the peril that the new master will abandon
the blunderer for the insult, and there is the peril
that the old one will destroy him for the sacrilege!"

At this moment the door behind Zindorf opened, and the
young girl entered. She was excited and her eyes danced.

"Oh!" she said, "people are coming on every road!"

She looked, my father said, like a painted picture, her
dark Castilian beauty illumined by the pleasure in her interpretation
of events. She thought the countryside assembled after the manner
of my father to express its felicitations.

Zindorf crossed in great strides to the window: Mr. Lucian
Morrow, sober and overwhelmed by the mystery of events about
him, got unsteadily on his feet, holding with both hands
to the oak back of a chair.

My father said that the tragedy of the thing was
on him, and he acted under the pressure of it.

"My child," he said, "you are to go to the
house of your grandfather in Havana. If Mr. Lucian Morrow
wishes to renew his suit for your hand in marriage,
he will do it there. Go now and make your
preparations for the journey."

The girl cried out in pleasure at the words.

"My grandfather is a great person in New Spain. I
have always longed to see him . . . father
promised . . . and now I am to go
. . . when do we set out, Meester Pendleton?"

"At once," replied my father, "to-day." Then he crossed the
room and opened the door for her to go out.
He held the latch until the girl was down the
stairway. Then he closed the door.

The big man, falsely in his aspect, like a monk,
looking out at the far-off figures on the distant roads,
now turned about.

"A clever ruse, Pendleton," he said, "We can send her
now, on this pretended journey, to Morrow's house, after the
sale."

My father went over and sat down at the table.
He took a faded silk envelope out of his, coat,
and laid it down before him. Then he answered Zindorf.

"There will be no sale," he said.

Mr. Lucian Morrow interrupted.

"And why no sale, Sir?"

"Because there is no slave to sell," replied my father.
"This girl is not the daughter of the octoroon woman,
Suzanne."

Zindorf's big jaws tightened.

"How did you know that?" he said.

My father answered with deliberation.

"I would have known it," he said, from the wording
of the paper you exhibit from Marquette's executors. It is
merely a release of any claim or color of title;
the sort of legal paper one executes when one gives
up a right or claim that one has no faith
in. Marquette's executors were the ablest lawyers in New Orleans.
They were not the men to sign away valuable property
in a conveyance like that; that they did sign such
a paper is conclusive evidence to me that they had
nothing - and knew they had nothing - to release
by it." He paused.

"I know it also," he said, "because I have before
me here the girl's certificate of birth and Ordez's certificate
of marriage."

He opened the silk envelope and took out some faded
papers. He unfolded them and spread them out under his
hand.

"I think Ordez feared for his child," he said, "and
stored these papers against the day of danger to her,
because they are copies taken from the records in Havana."

He looked up at the astonished Morrow.

"Ordez married the daughter of Pedro de Hernando. I find,
by a note to these papers, that she is dead.
I conclude that this great Spanish family objected to the
adventurer, and he fled with his infant daughter to New
Orleans." he paused.

"The intrigue with the octoroon woman, Suzanne, came after that."

Then he added:

"You must renew your negotiations, Sir, in, a somewhat different
manner before a Spanish Grandee in Havana!"

Mr. Lucian Morrow did not reply. He stood in a
sort of wonder. But Zindorf, his face like iron, addressed
my father:

"Where did you get these papers, Pendleton?" he said.

"I got them from Ordez," replied my father.

"When did you see Ordez?"

"I saw him to-day," replied my father.

Zindorf did not move, but his big jaw worked and
a faint spray of moisture came out on his face.
Then, finally, with no change or quaver in his voice,
he put his query.

"Where is Ordez?"

"Where?" echoed my father, and he rose. "Why, Zindorf, he
is on his way here." And he extended his arm
toward the open window. The big man lifted his head
and looked out at the men and horses now clearly
visible on the distant road.

"Who are these people," he said, "and why do they
come?" He spoke as though he addressed some present but
invisible authority.

My father answered him

"They are the people of Virginia," he said, "and they
come, Zindorf, in the purpose of events that you have
turned terribly backward!"

The man was in some desperate perplexity, but he had
steel nerves and the devil's courage.

He looked my father calmly in the face.

"What does all this mean?" he said.

"It means, Zindorf," cried my father, "it means that the
very things, the very particular things, that you ought to
have used for the glory of God, God has used
for your damnation!"

And again, in the clear April air, there entered through
the open window the faint tolling of a bell.

"Listen, Zindorf! I will tell you. In the old abandoned
church yonder, when they came to toll the bell for
Duncan, the rope fell to pieces; I came along then,
and Jacob Lance climbed into the steeple to toll the
bell by hand. At the first crash of sound a
wolf ran out of a thicket in the ravine below
him, and fled away toward the mountains. Lance, from his
elevated point, could see the wolf's muzzle was bloody. That
would mean, that a lost horse had been killed or
an estray steer. He called down and we went in
to see what thing this scavenger had got hold of."

He paused.

"In the cut of an abandoned road we found the
body of Ordez riddled with buckshot, and his pockets rifled.
But sewed up in his coat was the silk envelope
with these papers. I took possession of them as a
Justice of the Peace, ordered the body sent on here,
and the people to assemble."

He extended his arm toward the faint, quivering, distant sound.

"Listen, Zindorf," he cried; "the bell began to toll for
Duncan, but it tolls now for the murderer of Ordez.
It tolls to raise the country against the assassin!"

The false monk had the courage of his master. He
stood out and faced my father.

"But can you find him, Pendleton," he said. And his
harsh voice was firm. "You find Ordez dead; well, some
assassin shot him and carried his body into the cut
of the abandoned road. But who was that assassin? Is
Virginia scant of murderers? Do you know the right one?"

My father answered in his great dominating voice

"God knows him, Zindorf, and I know him! . .
. The man who murdered Ordez made a fatal blunder
. . . He used a sign of God in
the service of the devil and he is ruined!"

The big man stepped slowly backward into the room, while
my father's voice, filling the big empty spaces of the
house, followed after him.

"You are lost, Zindorf! Satan is insulted, and God is
outraged! You are lost!"

There was a moment's silence; from outside came the sound
of men and horses. The notes of the girl, light,
happy, ascended from the lower chamber, as she sang about
her preparations for the journey. Zindorf continued to step awfully
backward. And Lucian Morrow, shaken and sober, cried out in
the extremity of fear:

"In God's name, Pendleton, what do you mean; Zindorf, using
a sign of God in the service of the devil."

And my father answered him:

"The corpse of Ordez lay in the bare cut of
the abandoned road, and beside it, bedded in the damp
clay where he had knelt down to rifle the pockets
of the murdered body, were the patch prints of Zindorf's
knees!"