She was too good for him, everybody said. Yet still
she did not regret marrying him. He had come courting
her when he was only nineteen, and she twenty. He
was in build what they call a tight little fellow;
short, dark, with a warm colour, and that upright set
of the head and chest, that flaunting way in movement
recalling a mating bird, which denotes a body taut and
compact with life. Being a good worker he had earned
decent money in the mine, and having a good home
had saved a little.

She was a cook at "Uplands", a tall, fair girl,
very quiet. Having seen her walk down the street, Horsepool
had followed her from a distance. He was taken with
her, he did not drink, and he was not lazy.
So, although he seemed a bit simple, without much intelligence,
but having a sort of physical brightness, she considered, and
accepted him.

When they were married they went to live in Scargill
Street, in a highly respectable six-roomed house which they had
furnished between them. The street was built up the side
of a long, steep hill. It was narrow and rather
tunnel-like. Nevertheless, the back looked out over the adjoining pasture,
across a wide valley of fields and woods, in the
bottom of which the mine lay snugly.

He made himself gaffer in his own house. She was
unacquainted with a collier's mode of life. They were married
on a Saturday. On the Sunday night he said:

"Set th' table for my breakfast, an' put my pit-things
afront o' th' fire. I s'll be gettin' up at
ha'ef pas' five. Tha nedna shift thysen not till when
ter likes."

He showed her how to put a newspaper on the
table for a cloth. When she demurred:

"I want none o' your white cloths i' th' mornin'.
I like ter be able to slobber if I feel
like it," he said.

He put before the fire his moleskin trousers, a clean
singlet, or sleeveless vest of thick flannel, a pair of
stockings and his pit boots, arranging them all to be
warm and ready for morning.

"Now tha sees. That wants doin' ivery night."

Punctually at half past five he left her, without any
form of leave-taking, going downstairs in his shirt.

When he arrived home at four o'clock in the afternoon
his dinner was ready to be dished up. She was
startled when he came in, a short, sturdy figure, with
a face indescribably black and streaked. She stood before the
fire in her white blouse and white apron, a fair
girl, the picture of beautiful cleanliness. He "clommaxed" in, in
his heavy boots.

"Well, how 'as ter gone on?" he asked.

"I was ready for you to come home," she replied
tenderly. In his black face the whites of his brown
eyes flashed at her.

"An' I wor ready for comin'," he said. He planked
his tin bottle and snap-bag on the dresser, took off
his coat and scarf and waistcoat, dragged his arm-chair nearer
the fire and sat down.

"Let's ha'e a bit o' dinner, then--I'm about clammed," he
said.

"Aren't you goin' to wash yourself first?"

"What am I to wesh mysen for?"

"Well, you can't eat your dinner--"

"Oh, strike a daisy, Missis! Dunna I eat my snap
i' th' pit wi'out weshin'?--forced to."

She served the dinner and sat opposite him. His small
bullet head was quite black, save for the whites of
his eyes and his scarlet lips. It gave her a
queer sensation to see him open his red mouth and
bare his white teeth as he ate. His arms and
hands were mottled black; his bare, strong neck got a
little fairer as it settled towards his shoulders, reassuring her.
There was the faint indescribable odour of the pit in
the room, an odour of damp, exhausted air.

"Why is your vest so black on the shoulders?" she
asked.

"My singlet? That's wi' th' watter droppin' on us from
th' roof. This is a dry un as I put
on afore I come up. They ha'e gre't clothes-'osses, and'
as we change us things, we put 'em on theer
ter dry."

When he washed himself, kneeling on the hearth-rug stripped to
the waist, she felt afraid of him again. He was
so muscular, he seemed so intent on what he was
doing, so intensely himself, like a vigorous animal. And as
he stood wiping himself, with his naked breast towards her,
she felt rather sick, seeing his thick arms bulge their
muscles.

They were nevertheless very happy. He was at a great
pitch of pride because of her. The men in the
pit might chaff him, they might try to entice him
away, but nothing could reduce his self-assured pride because of
her, nothing could unsettle his almost infantile satisfaction. In the
evening he sat in his armchair chattering to her, or
listening as she read the newspaper to him. When it
was fine, he would go into the street, squat on
his heels as colliers do, with his back against the
wall of his parlour, and call to the passers-by, in
greeting, one after another. If no one were passing, he
was content just to squat and smoke, having such a
fund of sufficiency and satisfaction in his heart. He was
well married.

They had not been wed a year when all Brent
and Wellwood's men came out on strike. Willy was in
the Union, so with a pinch they scrambled through. The
furniture was not all paid for, and other debts were
incurred. She worried and contrived, he left it to her.
But he was a good husband; he gave her all
he had.

The men were out fifteen weeks. They had been back
just over a year when Willy had an accident in
the mine, tearing his bladder. At the pit head the
doctor talked of the hospital. Losing his head entirely, the
young collier raved like a madman, what with pain and
fear of hospital.

"Tha s'lt go whoam, Willy, tha s'lt go whoam," the
deputy said.

A lad warned the wife to have the bed ready.
Without speaking or hesitating she prepared. But when the ambulance
came, and she heard him shout with pain at being
moved, she was afraid lest she should sink down. They
carried him in.

"Yo' should 'a' had a bed i' th' parlour, Missis,"
said the deputy, "then we shouldn'a ha' had to hawkse
'im upstairs, an' it 'ud 'a' saved your legs."

But it was too late now. They got him upstairs.

"They let me lie, Lucy," he was crying, "they let
me lie two mortal hours on th' sleck afore they
took me outer th' stall. Th' peen, Lucy, th' peen;
oh, Lucy, th' peen, th' peen!"

"I know th' pain's bad, Willy, I know. But you
must try an' bear it a bit."

"Tha manna carry on in that form, lad, thy missis'll
niver be able ter stan' it," said the deputy.

"I canna 'elp it, it's th' peen, it's th' peen,"
he cried again. He had never been ill in his
life. When he had smashed a finger he could look
at the wound. But this pain came from inside, and
terrified him. At last he was soothed and exhausted.

It was some time before she could undress him and
wash him. He would let no other woman do for
him, having that savage modesty usual in such men.

For six weeks he was in bed, suffering much pain.
The doctors were not quite sure what was the matter
with him, and scarcely knew what to do. He could
eat, he did not lose flesh, nor strength, yet the
pain continued, and he could hardly walk at all.

In the sixth week the men came out in the
national strike. He would get up quite early in the
morning and sit by the window. On Wednesday, the second
week of the strike, he sat gazing out on the
street as usual, a bullet-headed young man, still vigorous-looking, but
with a peculiar expression of hunted fear in his face.

"Lucy," he called, "Lucy!"

She, pale and worn, ran upstairs at his bidding.

"Gi'e me a han'kercher," he said.

"Why, you've got one," she replied, coming near.

"Tha nedna touch me," he cried. Feeling his pocket, he
produced a white handkerchief.

"I non want a white un, gi'e me a red
un," he said.

"An' if anybody comes to see you," she answered, giving
him a red handkerchief.

"Besides," she continued, "you needn't ha' brought me upstairs for
that."

"I b'lieve th' peen's commin' on again," he said, with
a little horror in his voice.

"It isn't, you know, it isn't," she replied. "The doctor
says you imagine it's there when it isn't."

"Canna I feel what's inside me?" he shouted.

"There's a traction-engine coming downhill," she said. "That'll scatter them.
I'll just go an' finish your pudding."

She left him. The traction-engine went by, shaking the houses.
Then the street was quiet, save for the men. A
gang of youths from fifteen to twenty-five years old were
playing marbles in the middle of the road. Other little
groups of men were playing on the pavement. The street
was gloomy. Willy could hear the endless calling and shouting
of men's voices.

"Tha'rt skinchin'!"

"I arena!"

"Come 'ere with that blood-alley."

"Swop us four for't."

"Shonna, gie's hold on't."

He wanted to be out, he wanted to be playing
marbles. The pain had weakened his mind, so that he
hardly knew any self-control.

Presently another gang of men lounged up the street. It
was pay morning. The Union was paying the men in
the Primitive Chapel. They were returning with their half-sovereigns.

"Sorry!" bawled a voice. "Sorry!"

The word is a form of address, corruption probably of
'Sirrah'. Willy started almost out of his chair.

"Sorry!" again bawled a great voice. "Art goin' wi' me
to see Notts play Villa?"

Many of the marble players started up.

"What time is it? There's no treens, we s'll ha'e
ter walk."

The street was alive with men.

"Who's goin' ter Nottingham ter see th' match?" shouted the
same big voice. A very large, tipsy man, with his
cap over his eyes, was calling.

"Com' on--aye, com' on!" came many voices. The street was
full of the shouting of men. They split up in
excited cliques and groups.

"Play up, Notts!" the big man shouted.

"Plee up, Notts!" shouted the youths and men. They were
at kindling pitch. It only needed a shout to rouse
them. Of this the careful authorities were aware.

"I'm goin', I'm goin'!" shouted the sick man at his
window.

Lucy came running upstairs.

"I'm goin' ter see Notts play Villa on th' Meadows
ground," he declared.

"You--you can't go. There are no trains. You can't walk
nine miles."

"I'm goin' ter see th' match," he declared, rising.

"You know you can't. Sit down now an' be quiet."

She put her hand on him. He shook it off.

"Leave me alone, leave me alone. It's thee as ma'es
th' peen come, it's thee. I'm goin' ter Nottingham to
see th' football match."

"Sit down--folks'll hear you, and what will they think?"

"Come off'n me. Com' off. It's her, it's her as
does it. Com' off."

He seized hold of her. His little head was bristling
with madness, and he was strong as a lion.

"Oh, Willy!" she cried.

"It's 'er, it's 'er. Kill her!" he shouted, "kill her."

"Willy, folks'll hear you."

"Th' peen's commin' on again, I tell yer. I'll kill
her for it."

He was completely out of his mind. She struggled with
him to prevent his going to the stairs. When she
escaped from him, he was shouting and raving, she beckoned
to her neighbour, a girl of twenty-four, who was cleaning
the window across the road.

Ethel Mellor was the daughter of a well-to-do check-weighman. She
ran across in fear to Mrs Horsepool. Hearing the man
raving, people were running out in the street and listening.
Ethel hurried upstairs. Everything was clean and pretty in the
young home.

Willy was staggering round the room, after the slowly retreating
Lucy, shouting:

"Kill her! Kill her!"

"Mr Horsepool!" cried Ethel, leaning against the bed, white as
the sheets, and trembling. "Whatever are you saying?"

"I tell yer it's 'er fault as th' peen comes
on--I tell yer it is! Kill 'er--kill 'er!"

"Kill Mrs Horsepool!" cried the trembling girl. "Why, you're ever
so fond of her, you know you are."

"The peen--I ha'e such a lot o' peen--I want to
kill 'er."

He was subsiding. When he sat down his wife collapsed
in a chair, weeping noiselessly. The tears ran down Ethel's
face. He sat staring out of the window; then the
old, hurt look came on his face.

"What 'ave I been sayin'?" he asked, looking piteously at
his wife.

"Why!" said Ethel, "you've been carrying on something awful, saying,
'Kill her, kill her!'"

"Have I, Lucy?" he faltered.

"You didn't know what you was saying," said his young
wife gently but coldly.

His face puckered up. He bit his lip, then broke
into tears, sobbing uncontrollably, with his face to the window.

There was no sound in the room but of three
people crying bitterly, breath caught in sobs. Suddenly Lucy put
away her tears and went over to him.

"You didn't know what you was sayin', Willy, I know
you didn't. I knew you didn't, all the time. It
doesn't matter, Willy. Only don't do it again."

In a little while, when they were calmer, she went
downstairs with Ethel.

"See if anybody is looking in the street," she said.

Ethel went into the parlour and peeped through the curtains.

"Aye!" she said. "You may back your life Lena an'
Mrs Severn'll be out gorping, and that clat-fartin' Mrs Allsop."

"Oh, I hope they haven't heard anything! If it gets
about as he's out of his mind, they'll stop his
compensation, I know they will."

"They'd never stop his compensation for that," protested Ethel.

"Well, they have been stopping some--"

"It'll not get about. I s'll tell nobody."

"Oh, but if it does, whatever shall we do? .
. ."