"Oh, I'm tired!" Frances exclaimed petulantly, and in the same
instant she dropped down on the turf, near the hedge-bottom.
Anne stood a moment surprised, then, accustomed to the vagaries
of her beloved Frances, said:

"Well, and aren't you always likely to be tired, after
travelling that blessed long way from Liverpool yesterday?" and she
plumped down beside her sister. Anne was a wise young
body of fourteen, very buxom, brimming with common sense. Frances
was much older, about twenty-three, and whimsical, spasmodic. She was
the beauty and the clever child of the family. She
plucked the goose-grass buttons from her dress in a nervous,
desperate fashion. Her beautiful profile, looped above with black hair,
warm with the dusky-and-scarlet complexion of a pear, was calm
as a mask, her thin brown hand plucked nervously.

"It's not the journey," she said, objecting to Anne's obtuseness.
Anne looked inquiringly at her darling. The young girl, in
her self-confident, practical way, proceeded to reckon up this whimsical
creature. But suddenly she found herself full in the eyes
of Frances; felt two dark, hectic eyes flaring challenge at
her, and she shrank away. Frances was peculiar for these
great, exposed looks, which disconcerted people by their violence and
their suddenness.

"What's a matter, poor old duck?" asked Anne, as she
folded the slight, wilful form of her sister in her
arms. Frances laughed shakily, and nestled down for comfort on
the budding breasts of the strong girl.

"Oh, I'm only a bit tired," she murmured, on the
point of tears.

"Well, of course you are, what do you expect?" soothed
Anne. It was a joke to Frances that Anne should
play elder, almost mother to her. But then, Anne was
in her unvexed teens; men were like big dogs to
her: while Frances, at twenty-three, suffered a good deal.

The country was intensely morning-still. On the common everything shone
beside its shadow, and the hillside gave off heat in
silence. The brown turf seemed in a low state of
combustion, the leaves of the oaks were scorched brown. Among
the blackish foliage in the distance shone the small red
and orange of the village.

The willows in the brook-course at the foot of the
common suddenly shook with a dazzling effect like diamonds. It
was a puff of wind. Anne resumed her normal position.
She spread her knees, and put in her lap a
handful of hazel nuts, whity-green leafy things, whose one cheek
was tanned between brown and pink. These she began to
crack and eat. Frances, with bowed head, mused bitterly.

"Eh, you know Tom Smedley?" began the young girl, as
she pulled a tight kernel out of its shell.

"I suppose so," replied Frances sarcastically.

"Well, he gave me a wild rabbit what he'd caught,
to keep with my tame one--and it's living."

"That's a good thing," said Frances, very detached and ironic.

"Well, it is! He reckoned he'd take me to Ollerton
Feast, but he never did. Look here, he took a
servant from the rectory; I saw him."

"So he ought," said Frances.

"No, he oughtn't! and I told him so. And I
told him I should tell you--an' I have done."

Click and snap went a nut between her teeth. She
sorted out the kernel, and chewed complacently.

"It doesn't make much difference," said Frances.

"Well, 'appen it doesn't; but I was mad with him
all the same."

"Why?"

"Because I was; he's no right to go with a
servant."

"He's a perfect right," persisted Frances, very just and cold.

"No, he hasn't, when he'd said he'd take me."

Frances burst into a laugh of amusement and relief.

"Oh, no; I'd forgot that," she said, adding, "And what
did he say when you promised to tell me?"

"He laughed and said, 'he won't fret her fat over
that.'"

"And she won't," sniffed Frances.

There was silence. The common, with its sere, blonde-headed thistles,
its heaps of silent bramble, its brown-husked gorse in the
glare of sunshine, seemed visionary. Across the brook began the
immense pattern of agriculture, white chequering of barley stubble, brown
squares of wheat, khaki patches of pasture, red stripes of
fallow, with the woodland and the tiny village dark like
ornaments, leading away to the distance, right to the hills,
where the check-pattern grew smaller and smaller, till, in the
blackish haze of heat, far off, only the tiny white
squares of barley stubble showed distinct.

"Eh, I say, here's a rabbit hole!" cried Anne suddenly.
"Should we watch if one comes out? You won't have
to fidget, you know."

The two girls sat perfectly still. Frances watched certain objects
in her surroundings: they had a peculiar, unfriendly look about
them: the weight of greenish elderberries on their purpling stalks;
the twinkling of the yellowing crab-apples that clustered high up
in the hedge, against the sky: the exhausted, limp leaves
of the primroses lying flat in the hedge-bottom: all looked
strange to her. Then her eyes caught a movement. A
mole was moving silently over the warm, red soil, nosing,
shuffling hither and thither, flat, and dark as a shadow,
shifting about, and as suddenly brisk, and as silent, like
a very ghost of joie de vivre. Frances started, from
habit was about to call on Anne to kill the
little pest. But, to-day, her lethargy of unhappiness was too
much for her. She watched the little brute paddling, snuffing,
touching things to discover them, running in blindness, delighted to
ecstasy by the sunlight and the hot, strange things that
caressed its belly and its nose. She felt a keen
pity for the little creature.

"Eh, our Fran, look there! It's a mole."

Anne was on her feet, standing watching the dark, unconscious
beast. Frances frowned with anxiety.

"It doesn't run off, does it?" said the young girl
softly. Then she stealthily approached the creature. The mole paddled
fumblingly away. In an instant Anne put her foot upon
it, not too heavily. Frances could see the struggling, swimming
movement of the little pink hands of the brute, the
twisting and twitching of its pointed nose, as it wrestled
under the sole of the boot.

"It does wriggle!" said the bonny girl, knitting her brows
in a frown at the eerie sensation. Then she bent
down to look at her trap. Frances could now see,
beyond the edge of the boot-sole, the heaving of the
velvet shoulders, the pitiful turning of the sightless face, the
frantic rowing of the flat, pink hands.

"Kill the thing," she said, turning away her face.

"Oh--I'm not," laughed Anne, shrinking. "You can, if you like."

"I don't like," said Frances, with quiet intensity.

After several dabbling attempts, Anne succeeded in picking up the
little animal by the scruff of its neck. It threw
back its head, flung its long blind snout from side
to side, the mouth open in a peculiar oblong, with
tiny pinkish teeth at the edge. The blind, frantic mouth
gaped and writhed. The body, heavy and clumsy, hung scarcely
moving.

"Isn't it a snappy little thing," observed Anne twisting to
avoid the teeth.

"What are you going to do with it?" asked Frances
sharply.

"It's got to be killed--look at the damage they do.
I s'll take it home and let dadda or somebody
kill it. I'm not going to let it go."

She swaddled the creature clumsily in her pocket-handkerchief and sat
down beside her sister. There was an interval of silence,
during which Anne combated the efforts of the mole.

"You've not had much to say about Jimmy this time.
Did you see him often in Liverpool?" Anne asked suddenly.

"Once or twice," replied Frances, giving no sign of how
the question troubled her.

"And aren't you sweet on him any more, then?"

"I should think I'm not, seeing that he's engaged."

"Engaged? Jimmy Barrass! Well, of all things! I never thought
he'd get engaged."

"Why not, he's as much right as anybody else?" snapped
Frances.

Anne was fumbling with the mole.

"'Appen so," she said at length; "but I never thought
Jimmy would, though."

"Why not?" snapped Frances.

"I don't know--this blessed mole, it'll not keep still!--who's he
got engaged to?"

"How should I know?"

"I thought you'd ask him; you've known him long enough.
I s'd think he thought he'd get engaged now he's
a Doctor of Chemistry."

Frances laughed in spite of herself.

"What's that got to do with it?" she asked.

"I'm sure it's got a lot. He'll want to feel
somebody now, so he's got engaged. Hey, stop it; go
in!"

But at this juncture the mole almost succeeded in wriggling
clear. It wrestled and twisted frantically, waved its pointed blind
head, its mouth standing open like a little shaft, its
big, wrinkled hands spread out.

"Go in with you!" urged Anne, poking the little creature
with her forefinger, trying to get it back into the
handkerchief. Suddenly the mouth turned like a spark on her
finger.

"Oh!" she cried, "he's bit me."

She dropped him to the floor. Dazed, the blind creature
fumbled round. Frances felt like shrieking. She expected him to
dart away in a flash, like a mouse, and there
he remained groping; she wanted to cry to him to
be gone. Anne, in a sudden decision of wrath, caught
up her sister's walking-cane. With one blow the mole was
dead. Frances was startled and shocked. One moment the little
wretch was fussing in the heat, and the next it
lay like a little bag, inert and black--not a struggle,
scarce a quiver.

"It is dead!" Frances said breathlessly. Anne took her finger
from her mouth, looked at the tiny pinpricks, and said:

"Yes, he is, and I'm glad. They're vicious little nuisances,
moles are."

With which her wrath vanished. She picked up the dead
animal.

"Hasn't it got a beautiful skin," she mused, stroking the
fur with her forefinger, then with her cheek.

"Mind," said Frances sharply. "You'll have the blood on your
skirt!"

One ruby drop of blood hung on the small snout,
ready to fall. Anne shook it off on to some
harebells. Frances suddenly became calm; in that moment, grown-up.

"I suppose they have to be killed," she said, and
a certain rather dreary indifference succeeded to her grief. The
twinkling crab-apples, the glitter of brilliant willows now seemed to
her trifling, scarcely worth the notice. Something had died in
her, so that things lost their poignancy. She was calm,
indifference overlying her quiet sadness. Rising, she walked down to
the brook course.

"Here, wait for me," cried Anne, coming tumbling after.

Frances stood on the bridge, looking at the red mud
trodden into pockets by the feet of cattle. There was
not a drain of water left, but everything smelled green,
succulent. Why did she care so little for Anne, who
was so fond of her? she asked herself. Why did
she care so little for anyone? She did not know,
but she felt a rather stubborn pride in her isolation
and indifference.

They entered a field where stooks of barley stood in
rows, the straight, blonde tresses of the corn streaming on
to the ground. The stubble was bleached by the intense
summer, so that the expanse glared white. The next field
was sweet and soft with a second crop of seeds;
thin, straggling clover whose little pink knobs rested prettily in
the dark green. The scent was faint and sickly. The
girls came up in single file, Frances leading.

Near the gate a young man was mowing with the
scythe some fodder for the afternoon feed of the cattle.
As he saw the girls he left off working and
waited in an aimless kind of way. Frances was dressed
in white muslin, and she walked with dignity, detached and
forgetful. Her lack of agitation, her simple, unheeding advance made
him nervous. She had loved the far-off Jimmy for five
years, having had in return his half-measures. This man only
affected her slightly.

Tom was of medium stature, energetic in build. His smooth,
fair-skinned face was burned red, not brown, by the sun,
and this ruddiness enhanced his appearance of good humour and
easiness. Being a year older than Frances, he would have
courted her long ago had she been so inclined. As
it was, he had gone his uneventful way amiably, chatting
with many a girl, but remaining unattached, free of trouble
for the most part. Only he knew he wanted a
woman. He hitched his trousers just a trifle self-consciously as
the girls approached. Frances was a rare, delicate kind of
being, whom he realized with a queer and delicious stimulation
in his veins. She gave him a slight sense of
suffocation. Somehow, this morning, she affected him more than usual.
She was dressed in white. He, however, being matter-of-fact in
his mind, did not realize. His feeling had never become
conscious, purposive.

Frances knew what she was about. Tom was ready to
love her as soon as she would show him. Now
that she could not have Jimmy, she did not poignantly
care. Still, she would have something. If she could not
have the best--Jimmy, whom she knew to be something of
a snob--she would have the second best, Tom. She advanced
rather indifferently.

"You are back, then!" said Tom. She marked the touch
of uncertainty in his voice.

"No," she laughed, "I'm still in Liverpool," and the undertone
of intimacy made him burn.

"This isn't you, then?" he asked.

Her heart leapt up in approval. She looked in his
eyes, and for a second was with him.

"Why, what do you think?" she laughed.

He lifted his hat from his head with a distracted
little gesture. She liked him, his quaint ways, his humour,
his ignorance, and his slow masculinity.

"Here, look here, Tom Smedley," broke in Anne.

"A moudiwarp! Did you find it dead?" he asked.

"No, it bit me," said Anne.

"Oh, aye! An' that got your rag out, did it?"

"No, it didn't!" Anne scolded sharply. "Such language!"

"Oh, what's up wi' it?"

"I can't bear you to talk broad."

"Can't you?"

He glanced at Frances.

"It isn't nice," Frances said. She did not care, really.
The vulgar speech jarred on her as a rule; Jimmy
was a gentleman. But Tom's manner of speech did not
matter to her.

"I like you to talk nicely," she added.

"Do you," he replied, tilting his hat, stirred.

"And generally you do, you know," she smiled.

"I s'll have to have a try," he said, rather
tensely gallant.

"What?" she asked brightly.

"To talk nice to you," he said. Frances coloured furiously,
bent her head for a moment, then laughed gaily, as
if she liked this clumsy hint.

"Eh now, you mind what you're saying," cried Anne, giving
the young man an admonitory pat.

"You wouldn't have to give yon mole many knocks like
that," he teased, relieved to get on safe ground, rubbing
his arm.

"No indeed, it died in one blow," said Frances, with
a flippancy that was hateful to her.

"You're not so good at knockin' 'em?" he said, turning
to her.

"I don't know, if I'm cross," she said decisively.

"No?" he replied, with alert attentiveness.

"I could," she added, harder, "if it was necessary."

He was slow to feel her difference.

"And don't you consider it is necessary?" he asked, with
misgiving.

"W--ell--is it?" she said, looking at him steadily, coldly.

"I reckon it is," he replied, looking away, but standing
stubborn.

She laughed quickly.

"But it isn't necessary for me," she said, with slight
contempt.

"Yes, that's quite true," he answered.

She laughed in a shaky fashion.

"I know it is," she said; and there was an
awkward pause.

"Why, would you like me to kill moles then?" she
asked tentatively, after a while.

"They do us a lot of damage," he said, standing
firm on his own ground, angered.

"Well, I'll see the next time I come across one,"
she promised, defiantly. Their eyes met, and she sank before
him, her pride troubled. He felt uneasy and triumphant and
baffled, as if fate had gripped him. She smiled as
she departed.

"Well," said Anne, as the sisters went through the wheat
stubble; "I don't know what you two's been jawing about,
I'm sure."

"Don't you?" laughed Frances significantly.

"No, I don't. But, at any rate, Tom Smedley's a
good deal better to my thinking than Jimmy, so there--and
nicer."

"Perhaps he is," said Frances coldly.

And the next day, after a secret, persistent hunt, she
found another mole playing in the heat. She killed it,
and in the evening, when Tom came to the gate
to smoke his pipe after supper, she took him the
dead creature.

"Here you are then!" she said.

"Did you catch it?" he replied, taking the velvet corpse
into his fingers and examining it minutely. This was to
hide his trepidation.

"Did you think I couldn't?" she asked, her face very
near his.

"Nay, I didn't know."

She laughed in his face, a strange little laugh that
caught her breath, all agitation, and tears, and recklessness of
desire. He looked frightened and upset. She put her hand
to his arm.

"Shall you go out wi' me?" he asked, in a
difficult, troubled tone.

She turned her face away, with a shaky laugh. The
blood came up in him, strong, overmastering. He resisted it.
But it drove him down, and he was carried away.
Seeing the winsome, frail nape of her neck, fierce love
came upon him for her, and tenderness.

"We s'll 'ave to tell your mother," he said. And
he stood, suffering, resisting his passion for her.

"Yes," she replied, in a dead voice. But there was
a thrill of pleasure in this death.