It had been raining hard all night; when the morning
dawned clear everything looked vivid and unnatural. The wet leaves
on the trees and hedges seemed to emit a real
green light of their own; the tree trunks were black
and dank, and the spots of moss on them stood
out distinctly.

A tall old woman was coming quickly up the street.
She had on a stiffly starched calico gown, which sprang
and rattled as she walked. She kept smoothing it anxiously.
"Gittin' every mite of the stiff'nin' out," she muttered to
herself.

She stopped at a long cottage house, whose unpainted walls,
with white window facings, and wide sweep of shingled roof,
looked dark and startling through being sodden with rain.

There was a low stone wall by way of fence,
with a gap in it for a gate.

She had just passed through this gap when the house
door opened and a woman put out her head.

"Is that you, Hannah?" said she.

"Yes, it's me." She laid a hard emphasis on the
last word; then she sighed heavily.

"Hadn't you better hold your dress up comin' through that
wet grass, Hannah? You'll git it all bedraggled."

"I know it. I'm a-gittin' every mite of the stiff'nin'
out on't. I worked half the forenoon ironin' on't yesterday,
too. Well, I thought I'd got to git over here
an' fetch a few of these fried cakes. I thought
mebbe Alferd would relish 'em fur his breakfast; an' he'd
got to hev 'em while they was hot; they ain't
good fur nothin' cold; an' I didn't hev a soul
to send — never do. How is Alferd this mornin',
Lucy?"

"'Bout the same, I guess."

"Ain't had the doctor yit?"

"No." She had a little, patient, pleasant smile on her
face, looking up at her questioner.

The women were sisters. Hannah was Hannah Orton, unmarried. Lucy
was Mrs. Tollet. Alfred was her sick husband.

Hannah's long, sallow face was deeply wrinkled. Her wide mouth
twisted emphatically as she talked.

"Well, I know one thing; ef he was my husband
he'd hev a doctor."

Mrs. Tollet's voice was old, but there was a childish
tone in it, a sweet, uncertain pipe.

"No, you couldn't make him, Hannah; you couldn't, no more'n
me. Alferd was allers jest so. He ain't never thought
nothin' of doctors, nor doctors' stuff."

"Well, I'd make him take somethin'. In my opinion he
needs somethin' bitter." She screwed her mouth as if the
bitter morsel were on her own tongue.

"Lor'! he wouldn't take it, you know, Hannah."

"He'd hev to. Gentian would be good fur him."

"He wouldn't tech it."

"I'd make him, ef I put it in his tea
unbeknownst to him."

"Oh, I wouldn't dare to!"

"Land! I guess I'd dare to. Ef folks don't know
enough to take what's good fur 'em, they'd orter be
made to by hook or crook. I don't believe in
deceivin' generally, but I don't believe the Lord would hev
let folks hed the faculty fur deceivin' in 'em ef
it wa'n't to be used fur good sometimes. It's my
opinion Alferd won't last long ef he don't hev somethin'
pretty soon to strengthen of him up an' give him
a start. Well, it ain't no use talkin'. I've got
to git home an' put this dress in the washtub
ag'in, I s'pose. I never see such a sight —
jest look at that! You'd better give Alferd those cakes
afore they git cold."

"I shouldn't wonder ef he relished 'em. You was real
good to think of it, Hannah."

"Well, I'm a-goin'. Every mite of the stiff'nin's out. Sometimes
it seems as ef thar wa'n't no end to the
work. I didn't know how to git out this mornin',
anyway."

When Mrs. Tollet entered the house she found her husband
in a wooden rocking-chair with a calico cushion, by the
kitchen window. He was a short, large-framed old man, but
he was very thin. There were great hollows in his
yellow cheeks.

"What you got thar, Lucy?"

"Some griddle cakes Hannah brought."

"Griddle cakes!"

"They're real nice-lookin' ones. Don't you think you'd relish one
or two, Alferd?"

"Ef you an' Hannah want griddle cakes, you kin hev
griddle cakes."

"Then you don't want to hev one, with some maple
merlasses on it? They've kept hot; she hed 'em kivered
up."

"Take 'em away!"

She set them meekly on the pantry shelf; then she
came back and stood before her husband, gentle deprecation in
her soft old face and in the whole poise of
her little slender body.

"What will you hev fur breakfast, Alferd?"

"I don' know. Well, you might as well fry a
little slice of bacon, an' git a cup of tea."

"Ain't you 'most afeard of — bacon, Alferd?"

"No, I ain't. Ef anybody's sick, they kin tell what
they want themselves 'bout as well's anybody kin tell 'em.
They don't hev any hankerin' arter anythin' unless it's good
for 'em. When they need anythin', natur gives 'em a
longin' arter it. I wish you'd hurry up an' cook
that bacon, Lucy. I'm awful faint at my stomach."

She cooked the bacon and made the tea with no
more words. Indeed, it was seldom that she used as
many as she had now. Alfred Tollet, ever since she
had married him, had been the sole autocrat of all
her little Russias; her very thoughts had followed after him,
like sheep.

After breakfast she went about putting her house in order
for the day. When that was done and she was
ready to sit down with her sewing, she found that
her husband had fallen asleep in his chair. She stood
over him a minute, looking at his pale old face
with the sincerest love and reverence. Then she sat down
by the window and sewed, but not long. She got
her bonnet and shawl stealthily and stole out of the
house. She sped quickly down the village street. She was
light-footed for an old woman. She slackened her pace when
she reached the village store, and crept hesitatingly into the
great lumbering, rank-smelling room, with its dark, newly-sprinkled floor. She
bought a bar of soap; then she stood irresolute.

"Anything else this mornin', Mis' Tollet?" The proprietor himself, a
narrow-shouldered, irritable man, was waiting on her. His tone was
impatient. Mrs. Tollet was too absorbed to notice it. She
stood hesitating.

"Is there anything else you want?"

"Well — I don' know; but — p'rhaps I'd better
— hev — ten cents' wuth of gentian." Her very
lips were white; she had an expression of frightened, guilty
resolution. If she had asked for strychnine, with a view
to her own bodily destruction, she would not have had
a different look.

The man mistook it, and his conscience smote him. He
thought his manner had frightened her, but she had never
noticed it.

"Goin' to give your husband some bitters?" he asked, affably,
as he handed her the package.

She started and blushed. "No — I — thought some
would be good fur — me."

"Well, gentian is a first-rate bitter. Good morning, Mis' Tollet."

"Good morning, Mr. Gill."

She was trembling all over when she reached her house
door. There is a subtle, easily raised wind which blows
spirits about like leaves, and she had come into it
with her little paper of gentian. She had hidden the
parcel in her pocket before she entered the kitchen. Her
husband was awake. He turned his wondering, half-resentful eyes toward
her without moving his head.

"Where hev you been, Lucy?"

"I — jest went down to the store a minit,
Alferd, while you was asleep."

"What fer?"

"A bar of soap."

Alfred Tollet had always been a very healthy man until
this spring. Some people thought that his illness was alarming
now, more from its unwontedness and consequent effect on his
mind, than from anything serious in its nature. However that
may have been, he had complained of great depression and
languor all the spring, and had not attempted to do
any work.

It was the beginning of May now.

"Ef Alferd kin only git up May hill," Mrs. Tollet's
sister had said to her, "he'll git along all right
through the summer. It's a dretful tryin' time."

So up May hill, under the white apple and plum
boughs, over the dandelions and the young grass, Alfred Tollet
climbed, pushed and led faithfully by his loving old wife.
At last he stood triumphantly on the summit of that
fair hill, with its sweet, wearisome ascent. When the first
of June came, people said, "Alfred Tollet's a good deal
better."

He began to plant a little and bestir himself.

"Alferd's out workin' in the garden," Mrs. Tollet told her
sister one afternoon. She had strolled over to her house
with her knitting after dinner.

"You don't say so! Well, I thought when I see
him Sunday that he was lookin' better. He's got through
May, an' I guess he'll pull through. I did feel
kinder worried 'bout him one spell — Why, Lucy, what's
the matter?"

"Nothin'. Why?"

"You looked at me dretful kind of queer an' distressed,
I thought."

"I guess you must hev imagined it, Hannah. Thar ain't
nothin' the matter." She tried to look unconcernedly at her
sister, but her lips were trembling.

"Well, I don't know 'bout it. You look kinder queer
now. I guess you walked too fast comin' over here.
You allers did race."

"Mebbe I did."

"For the land sake, jest see that dust you tracked
in! I've got to git the dustpan an' brush now,
an' sweep it up."

"I'll do it."

"No; set still. I'd rather see to it myself."

As the summer went on Alfred Tollet continued to improve.
He was as hearty as ever by September. But his
wife seemed to lose as he gained. She grew thin,
and her small face had a solemn, anxious look. She
went out very little. She did not go to church
at all, and she had been a devout churchgoer. Occasionally
she went over to her sister's, that was all. Hannah
watched her shrewdly. She was a woman who arrived at
conclusions slowly; but she never turned aside from the road
to them.

"Look-a here, Lucy," she said one day, "I know what's
the matter with you; thar's somethin' on your mind; an'
I think you'd better out with it."

The words seemed propelled like bullets by her vehemence. Lucy
shrank down and away from them, her pitiful eyes turned
up toward her sister.

"Oh, Hannah, you scare me! I don't know what you
mean."

"Yes, you do. Do you s'pose I'm blind? You're worrying
yourself to death, an' I want to know the reason
why. Is it anything 'bout Alferd?"

"Yes. Don't, Hannah."

"Well, I'll go over an' give him a piece of
my mind! I'll see —"

"Oh, Hannah, don't! It ain't him. It's me — it's
me."

"What on airth hev you done?"

Mrs. Tollet began to sob.

"For the land sake, stop cryin' an' tell me."

"Oh, I — give him — gentian."

"Lucy Ann Tollet, air you crazy? What ef you did
give him gentian? I don't see nothin' to take on
so about."

"I — deceived him, an' it's been 'most killin' me
to think on't ever since."

"What do you mean?"

"I put it in his tea, the way you said."

"An' he never knew it?"

"He kinder complained 'bout its tastin' bitter, an' I told
him 'twas his mouth. He asked me ef it didn't
taste bitter to me, an' I said, 'No.' I don'
know nothin' what's goin' to become of me. Then I
had to be so keerful 'bout putting too much on't
in his tea, that I was afraid he wouldn't get
enough. So I put little sprinklin's on't in the bread
an' pies an' everythin' I cooked. An' when he'd say
nothin' tasted right nowadays, an' somehow everything was kinder bitterish,
I'd tell him it must be his mouth."

"Look here, Lucy, you didn't eat everythin' with gentian in
it yourself?"

"Course I did."

"Fur the land sake!"

"I s'pose the stuff must hev done him good; he's
picked right up ever since he begun takin' it. But
I can't git over my deceivin' of him so. I've
'bout made up my mind to tell him."

"Well, all I've got to say is you're a big
fool if you do. I declare, Lucy Ann Tollet, I
never saw sech a woman! The idee of your worryin'
over such a thing as that, when it's done Alferd
good, too! P'rhaps you'd ruther he'd died?"

"Sometimes I think I hed 'most ruther."

"Well!"

In the course of a few days Mrs. Tollet did
tell her husband. He received her disclosure in precisely the
way she had known that he would. Her nerves received
just the shock which they were braced to meet.

They had come home from meeting on a Sunday night.
Mrs. Tollet stood before him; she had not even taken
off her shawl and little black bonnet.

"Alferd," said she, "I've got somethin' to tell you; it's
been on my mind a long time. I meant it
all fur the best; but I've been doin' somethin' wrong.
I've been deceivin' of you. I give you gentian last
spring when you was so poorly. I put little sprinklin's
on't into everything you ate. An' I didn't tell the
truth when I said 'twas your mouth, an' it didn't
taste bitter to me."

The old man half closed his eyes, and looked at
her intently; his mouth widened out rigidly. "You put a
little gentian into everything I ate unbeknownst to me, did
you?" said he. "H'm!"

"Oh, Alferd, don't look at me so! I meant it
all fur the best. I was afeard you wouldn't git
well without you hed it, Alferd. I was dretful worried
about you; you didn't know nothin' about it, but I
was. I laid awake nights a-worryin' an' prayin'. I know
I did wrong; it wa'n't right to deceive you, but
it was all along of my worryin' an' my thinkin'
so much of you, Alferd. I was afeard you'd die
an' leave me all alone; an' — it 'most killed
me to think on't."

Mr. Tollet pulled off his boots, then pattered heavily about
the house, locking the doors and making preparations for retiring.
He would not speak another word to his wife about
the matter, though she kept on with her piteous little
protestations.

Next morning, while she was getting breakfast, he went down
to the store. The meal, a nice one — she
had taken unusual pains with it — was on the
table when he returned; but he never glanced at it.
His hands were full of bundles, which he opened with
painstaking deliberation. His wife watched apprehensively. There was a new
teapot, a pound of tea, and some bread and cheese,
also a salt mackerel.

Mrs. Tollet's eyes shone round and big; her lips were
white. Her husband put a pinch of tea in the
new teapot, and filled it with boiling water from the
kettle.

"What air you a-doin' on, Alferd?" she asked, feebly.

"I'm jest a-goin' to make sure I hev some tea,
an' somethin' to eat without any gentian in it."

"Oh, Alferd, I made these corn cakes on purpose, an'
they air real light. They ain't got no gentian on
'em, Alferd."

He sliced his bread and cheese clumsily, and sat down
to eat them in stubborn silence.

Mrs. Tollet, motionless at her end of the table, stared
at him with an appalled look. She never thought of
eating anything herself.

After breakfast, when her husband started out to work, he
pointed at the mackerel. "Don't you tech that," said he.

"But, Alferd —"

"I ain't got nothin' more to say. Don't you tech
it."

Never a morning had passed before but Lucy Tollet had
set her house in order; today she remained there at
the kitchen table till noon, and did not put away
the breakfast dishes.

Alfred came home, kindled up the fire, cooked and ate
his salt mackerel imperturbably; and she did not move or
speak till he was about to go away again. Then
she said, in a voice which seemed to shrink of
itself, "Alferd!"

He did not turn his head.

"Alferd, you must answer me; I'm in airnest. Don't you
want me to do nothin' fur you any more? Don't
you never want me to cook anything fur you ag'in?"

"No; I'm afeard of gittin' things that's bitter."

"I won't never put any gentian in anything ag'in, Alferd.
Won't you let me git supper?"

"No, I won't. I don't want to talk no more
about it. In futur I'm a-goin' to cook my vittles
myself, an' that's all thar is about it."

"Alferd, if you don't want me to do nothin' fur
you, mebbe — you'll think I ain't airnin' my own
vittles; mebbe — you'd rather I go over to Hannah's
—"

She sobbed aloud when she said that. He looked startled,
and eyed her sharply for a minute. The other performer
in the little melodrama which this thwarted, arbitrary old man
had arranged was adopting a rôle that he had not
anticipated, but he was still going to abide by his
own.

"Mebbe 'twould be jest as well," said he. Then he
went out of the door.

Hannah Orton was in her kitchen sewing when her sister
entered.

"Fur the land sake, Lucy, what is the matter?"

"I've left him — I've left Alferd! Oh! oh!"

Lucy Tollet gasped for breath; she sank into a chair
and leaned her head against the wall. Hannah got some
water.

"Don't, Lucy. There, there! Drink this, poor lamb!"

She did not quite faint. She could speak in a
few minutes. "He bought him a new teapot this mornin',
Hannah, an' some bread an' cheese and salt mackerel. He's
goin' to do his own cookin'; he don't want me
to do nothin' more fur him; he's afeard I'll put
gentian in it. I've left him! I've come to stay
with you!"

"You told him, then?"

"I hed to; I couldn't go on so no longer.
He wouldn't let me tech that mackerel, an' it orter
hev been soaked. It was salt enough to kill him."

"Serve him right ef it did."

"Hannah Orton, I ain't a-goin' to hev a thing said
ag'in Alferd."

"Well, ef you want to stan' up fur Alferd Tollet,
you kin. You allers would stan' up fur him ag'in
your own folks. Ef you want to keep on carin'
fur sech a miserable, set, unfeelin' —"

"Don't you say another word, Hannah — not another one;
I won't hear it."

"I ain't a-goin' to say nothin'; thar ain't any need
of your bein' so fierce. Now don't cry so, Lucy.
We shell git along real nice here together. You'll get
used to it arter a little while, an' you'll see
you air a good deal better off without him; you've
been nothin' but jest a slave ever since you was
married. Don't you s'pose I've seen it? I've pitied you
so, I didn't know what to do. I've seen the
time when I'd like to ha' shook Alferd."

"Don't, Hannah."

"I ain't a-goin' to say nothin' more. You jest stop
cryin' an' try an' be calm, or you'll be sick.
Hev you hed any dinner?"

"I don't want none."

"You've got to eat somethin', Lucy Ann Tollet. Thar ain't
no sense in your givin' up so. I've got a
nice little piece of lamb, an' some peas an' string
beans left over, an' I'm a-goin' to get 'em. You've
got to eat 'em, an' then you'll feel better. Look-a
here, I want to know ef Alferd drove you out
of the house 'cause you give him gentian? I ain't
got it through my head yet."

"I asked him ef he'd ruther hev me go, an'
he said mebbe 'twould be jest as well. I thought
I shouldn't hev no right to stay ef I couldn't
git his meals for him."

"Right to stay! Lucy Ann Tollet, ef it wa'n't fur
the grace of the Lord, I believe you'd be a
simpleton. I don't understand no sech goodness; I allers thought
it would run into foolishness some time, an' I believe
it has with you. Well, don't worry no more about
it; set up an' eat your dinner. Jest smooth out
that mat under your feet a little; you've got it
all scrolled up."

No bitter herb could have added anything to the bitterness
of that first dinner which poor Lucy Tollet ate after
she had left her own home. Time and custom lessened,
but not much, the bitterness of the subsequent ones. Hannah
had sewed for her living all her narrow, single life;
Lucy shared her work now. They had to live frugally;
still they had enough. Hannah owned the little house in
which she lived.

Lucy Tollet lived with her through the fall and winter.
Her leaving her husband started a great whirlpool of excitement
in this little village. Hannah's custom doubled: people came ostensibly
for work, but really for information. They quizzed her about
her sister, but Hannah could be taciturn. She did their
work and divulged nothing, except occasionally when she was surprised.
Then she would let fall a few little hints, which
were not at Lucy's expense.

They never saw Mrs. Tollet; she always ran when she
heard anyone coming. She never went out to church nor
on the street. She grew to have a morbid dread
of meeting her husband or seeing him. She would never
sit at the window, lest he might go past. Hannah
could not understand this; neither could Lucy herself.

Hannah thought she was suffering less, and was becoming weaned
from her affection, because she did so. But in reality
she was suffering more, and her faithful love for her
imperious old husband was strengthening.

All the autumn and winter she stayed and worked quietly;
in the spring she grew restless, though not perceptibly. She
had never bewailed herself much after the first; she dreaded
her sister's attacks on Alfred. Silence as to her own
grief was her best way of defending him.

Toward spring she often let her work fall in her
lap, and thought. Then she would glance timidly at Hannah,
as if she could know what her thoughts were; but
Hannah was no mind reader. Hannah, when she set out
for meeting one evening in May, had no conception whatever
of the plan which was all matured in her sister's
mind.

Lucy watched her out of sight; then she got herself
ready quickly. She smoothed her hair, put on her bonnet
and shawl, and started up the road toward her old
home.

There was no moon, but it was clear and starry.
The blooming trees stood beside the road like sweet, white,
spring angels; there was a whippoorwill calling somewhere over across
the fields. Lucy Tollet saw neither stars nor blooming trees;
she did not hear the whippoorwill. That hard, whimsical old
man in the little weather-beaten house ahead towered up like
a grand giant between the white trees and this one
living old woman; his voice in her ears drowned out
all the sweet notes of the spring birds.

When she came in sight of the house there was
a light in the kitchen window. She crept up to
it softly and looked in. Alfred was standing there with
his hat on. He was looking straight at the window,
and he saw her the minute her little pale face
came up above the sill.

He opened the door quickly and came out. "Lucy, is
that you?"

"Oh, Alferd, let me come home! I'll never deceive you
ag'in!"

"You jest go straight back to Hannah's this minute."

She caught hold of his coat. "Oh, Alferd, don't —
don't drive me away ag'in! It'll kill me this time;
it will! it will!"

"You go right back."

She sank right down at his feet then, and clung
to them. "Alferd, I won't go; I won't! I won't!
You sha'n't drive me away ag'in. Oh, Alferd, don't drive
me away from home! I've lived here with you for
fifty year a'most. Let me come home an' cook fur
you, an' do fur you agin. Oh, Alferd, Alferd!"

"See here, Lucy — git up; stop takin' on so.
I want to tell you somethin'. You jest go right
back to Hannah's, an' don't you worry. You set down
an' wait a minute. Thar!"

Lucy looked at him. "What do you mean, Alferd?"

"Never you mind; you jist go right along."

Lucy Tollet sped back along the road to Hannah's, hardly
knowing what she was about. It is doubtful if she
realized anything but a blind obedience to her husband's will,
and a hope of something roused by a new tone
in his voice. She sat down on the doorstep and
waited, she did not know for what. In a few
minutes she heard the creak of heavy boots, and her
husband came in sight. He walked straight up to her.

"I've come to ask you to come home, Lucy. I'm
a-feelin' kinder poorly this spring, an' — I want you
ter stew me up a little gentian. That you give
me afore did me a sight of good."

"Oh, Alferd!"

"That's what I'd got laid out to do when I
see you at the winder, Lucy, an' I was a-goin'
to do it."