In 1858 Fiddletown considered her a very pretty woman. She
had a quantity of light chestnut hair, a good figure,
a dazzling complexion, and a certain languid grace which passed
easily for gentle-womanliness. She always dressed becomingly, and in what
Fiddletown accepted as the latest fashion. She had only two
blemishes: one of her velvety eyes, when examined closely, had
a slight cast; and her left cheek bore a small
scar left by a single drop of vitriol-- happily the
only drop of an entire phial--thrown upon her by one
of her own jealous sex, that reached the pretty face
it was intended to mar. But when the observer had
studied the eyes sufficiently to notice this defect, he was
generally incapacitated for criticism; and even the scar on her
cheek was thought by some to add piquancy to her
smile. The youthful editor of THE FIDDLETOWN AVALANCHE had said
privately that it was "an exaggerated dimple." Colonel Starbottle was
instantly "reminded of the beautifying patches of the days of
Queen Anne, but more particularly, sir, of the blankest beautiful
women that, blank you, you ever laid your two blank
eyes upon--a Creole woman, sir, in New Orleans. And this
woman had a scar--a line extending, blank me, from her
eye to her blank chin. And this woman, sir, thrilled
you, sir; maddened you, sir; absolutely sent your blank soul
to perdition with her blank fascination! And one day I
said to her, 'Celeste, how in blank did you come
by that beautiful scar, blank you?' And she said to
me, 'Star, there isn't another white man that I'd confide
in but you; but I made that scar myself, purposely,
I did, blank me.' These were her very words, sir,
and perhaps you think it a blank lie, sir; but
I'll put up any blank sum you can name and
prove it, blank me."

Indeed, most of the male population of Fiddletown were or
had been in love with her. Of this number, about
one-half believed that their love was returned, with the exception,
possibly, of her own husband. He alone had been known
to express skepticism.

The name of the gentleman who enjoyed this infelicitous distinction
was Tretherick. He had been divorced from an excellent wife
to marry this Fiddletown enchantress. She, also, had been divorced;
but it was hinted that some previous experiences of hers
in that legal formality had made it perhaps less novel,
and probably less sacrificial. I would not have it inferred
from this that she was deficient in sentiment, or devoid
of its highest moral expression. Her intimate friend had written
(on the occasion of her second divorce), "The cold world
does not understand Clara yet"; and Colonel Starbottle had remarked
blankly that with the exception of a single woman in
Opelousas Parish, La., she had more soul than the whole
caboodle of them put together. Few indeed could read those
lines entitled "Infelissimus," commencing "Why waves no cypress o'er this
brow?" originally published in the AVALANCHE, over the signature of
"The Lady Clare," without feeling the tear of sensibility tremble
on his eyelids, or the glow of virtuous indignation mantle
his cheek, at the low brutality and pitiable jocularity of
THE DUTCH FLAT INTELLIGENCER, which the next week had suggested
the exotic character of the cypress, and its entire absence
from Fiddletown, as a reasonable answer to the query.

Indeed, it was this tendency to elaborate her feelings in
a metrical manner, and deliver them to the cold world
through the medium of the newspapers, that first attracted the
attention of Tretherick. Several poems descriptive of the effects of
California scenery upon a too-sensitive soul, and of the vague
yearnings for the infinite which an enforced study of the
heartlessness of California society produced in the poetic breast, impressed
Mr. Tretherick, who was then driving a six-mule freight wagon
between Knight's Ferry and Stockton, to seek out the unknown
poetess. Mr. Tretherick was himself dimly conscious of a certain
hidden sentiment in his own nature; and it is possible
that some reflections on the vanity of his pursuit--he supplied
several mining camps with whisky and tobacco--in conjunction with the
dreariness of the dusty plain on which he habitually drove,
may have touched some chord in sympathy with this sensitive
woman. Howbeit, after a brief courtship--as brief as was consistent
with some previous legal formalities--they were married; and Mr. Tretherick
brought his blushing bride to Fiddletown, or "Fideletown," as Mrs.
Tretherick preferred to call it in her poems.

The union was not a felicitous one. It was not
long before Mr. Tretherick discovered that the sentiment he had
fostered while freighting between Stockton and Knight's Ferry was different
from that which his wife had evolved from the contemplation
of California scenery and her own soul. Being a man
of imperfect logic, this caused him to beat her; and
she, being equally faulty in deduction, was impelled to a
certain degree of unfaithfulness on the same premise. Then Mr.
Tretherick began to drink, and Mrs. Tretherick to contribute regularly
to the columns of the AVALANCHE. It was at this
time that Colonel Starbottle discovered a similarity in Mrs. Tretherick's
verse to the genius of Sappho, and pointed it out
to the citizens of Fiddletown in a two-columned criticism, signed
"A. S.," also published in the AVALANCHE, and supported by
extensive quotation. As the AVALANCHE did not possess a font
of Greek type, the editor was obliged to reproduce the
Leucadian numbers in the ordinary Roman letter, to the intense
disgust of Colonel Starbottle, and the vast delight of Fiddletown,
who saw fit to accept the text as an excellent
imitation of Choctaw--a language with which the colonel, as a
whilom resident of the Indian Territories, was supposed to be
familiar. Indeed, the next week's INTELLIGENCER contained some vile doggerel
supposed to be an answer to Mrs. Tretherick's poem, ostensibly
written by the wife of a Digger Indian chief, accompanied
by a glowing eulogium signed "A. S. S."

The result of this jocularity was briefly given in a
later copy of the AVALANCHE. "An unfortunate rencounter took place
on Monday last, between the Hon. Jackson Flash of THE
DUTCH FLAT INTELLIGENCER and the well-known Col. Starbottle of this
place, in front of the Eureka Saloon. Two shots were
fired by the parties without injury to either, although it
is said that a passing Chinaman received fifteen buckshot in
the calves of his legs from the colonel's double-barreled shotgun,
which were not intended for him. John will learn to
keep out of the way of Melican man's firearms hereafter.
The cause of the affray is not known, although it
is hinted that there is a lady in the case.
The rumor that points to a well-known and beautiful poetess
whose lucubrations have often graced our columns seems to gain
credence from those that are posted."

Meanwhile the passiveness displayed by Tretherick under these trying circumstances
was fully appreciated in the gulches. "The old man's head
is level," said one long-booted philosopher. "Ef the colonel kills
Flash, Mrs. Tretherick is avenged: if Flash drops the colonel,
Tretherick is all right. Either way, he's got a sure
thing." During this delicate condition of affairs, Mrs. Tretherick one
day left her husband's home and took refuge at the
Fiddletown Hotel, with only the clothes she had on her
back. Here she staid for several weeks, during which period
it is only justice to say that she bore herself
with the strictest propriety.

It was a clear morning in early spring that Mrs.
Tretherick, unattended, left the hotel, and walked down the narrow
street toward the fringe of dark pines which indicated the
extreme limits of Fiddletown. The few loungers at that early
hour were preoccupied with the departure of the Wingdown coach
at the other extremity of the street; and Mrs. Tretherick
reached the suburbs of the settlement without discomposing observation. Here
she took a cross street or road, running at right
angles with the main thoroughfare of Fiddletown and passing through
a belt of woodland. It was evidently the exclusive and
aristocratic avenue of the town. The dwellings were few, ambitious,
and uninterrupted by shops. And here she was joined by
Colonel Starbottle.

The gallant colonel, notwithstanding that he bore the swelling port
which usually distinguished him, that his coat was tightly buttoned
and his boots tightly fitting, and that his cane, hooked
over his arm, swung jauntily, was not entirely at his
ease. Mrs. Tretherick, however, vouchsafed him a gracious smile and
a glance of her dangerous eyes; and the colonel, with
an embarrassed cough and a slight strut, took his place
at her side.

"The coast is clear," said the colonel, "and Tretherick is
over at Dutch Flat on a spree. There is no
one in the house but a Chinaman; and you need
fear no trouble from him. I," he continued, with a
slight inflation of the chest that imperiled the security of
his button, "I will see that you are protected in
the removal of your property."

"I'm sure it's very kind of you, and so disinterested!"
simpered the lady as they walked along. "It's so pleasant
to meet someone who has soul--someone to sympathize with in
a community so hardened and heartless as this." And Mrs.
Tretherick cast down her eyes, but not until they wrought
their perfect and accepted work upon her companion.

"Yes, certainly, of course," said the colonel, glancing nervously up
and down the street--"yes, certainly." Perceiving, however, that there was
no one in sight or hearing, he proceeded at once
to inform Mrs. Tretherick that the great trouble of his
life, in fact, had been the possession of too much
soul. That many women--as a gentleman she would excuse him,
of course, from mentioning names-- but many beautiful women had
often sought his society, but being deficient, madam, absolutely deficient,
in this quality, he could not reciprocate. But when two
natures thoroughly in sympathy, despising alike the sordid trammels of
a low and vulgar community and the conventional restraints of
a hypocritical society--when two souls in perfect accord met and
mingled in poetical union, then-- but here the colonel's speech,
which had been remarkable for a certain whisky-and-watery fluency, grew
husky, almost inaudible, and decidedly incoherent. Possibly Mrs. Tretherick may
have heard something like it before, and was enabled to
fill the hiatus. Nevertheless, the cheek that was on the
side of the colonel was quite virginal and bashfully conscious
until they reached their destination.

It was a pretty little cottage, quite fresh and warm
with paint, very pleasantly relieved against a platoon of pines,
some of whose foremost files had been displaced to give
freedom to the fenced enclosure in which it sat. In
the vivid sunlight and perfect silence, it had a new,
uninhabited look, as if the carpenters and painters had just
left it. At the farther end of the lot, a
Chinaman was stolidly digging; but there was no other sign
of occupancy. "The coast," as the colonel had said, was
indeed "clear." Mrs. Tretherick paused at the gate. The colonel
would have entered with her, but was stopped by a
gesture. "Come for me in a couple of hours, and
I shall have everything packed," she said, as she smiled,
and extended her hand. The colonel seized and pressed it
with great fervor. Perhaps the pressure was slightly returned; for
the gallant colonel was impelled to inflate his chest, and
trip away as smartly as his stubby-toed, high-heeled boots would
permit. When he had gone, Mrs. Tretherick opened the door,
listened a moment in the deserted hall, and then ran
quickly upstairs to what had been her bedroom.

Everything there was unchanged as on the night she left
it. On the dressing-table stood her bandbox, as she remembered
to have left it when she took out her bonnet.
On the mantle lay the other glove she had forgotten
in her flight. The two lower drawers of the bureau
were half-open (she had forgotten to shut them); and on
its marble top lay her shawl pin and a soiled
cuff. What other recollections came upon her I know not;
but she suddenly grew quite white, shivered, and listened with
a beating heart, and her hand upon the door. Then
she stepped to the mirror, and half-fearfully, half-curiously, parted with
her fingers the braids of her blond hair above her
little pink ear, until she came upon an ugly, half-
healed scar. She gazed at this, moving her pretty head
up and down to get a better light upon it,
until the slight cast in her velvety eyes became very
strongly marked indeed. Then she turned away with a light,
reckless, foolish laugh, and ran to the closet where hung
her precious dresses. These she inspected nervously, and missing suddenly
a favorite black silk from its accustomed peg, for a
moment, thought she should have fainted. But discovering it the
next instant lying upon a trunk where she had thrown
it, a feeling of thankfulness to a superior Being who
protects the friendless for the first time sincerely thrilled her.
Then, albeit she was hurried for time, she could not
resist trying the effect of a certain lavender neck ribbon
upon the dress she was then wearing, before the mirror.
And then suddenly she became aware of a child's voice
close beside her, and she stopped. And then the child's
voice repeated, "Is it Mamma?"

Mrs. Tretherick faced quickly about. Standing in the doorway was
a little girl of six or seven. Her dress had
been originally fine, but was torn and dirty; and her
hair, which was a very violent red, was tumbled seriocomically
about her forehead. For all this, she was a picturesque
little thing, even through whose childish timidity there was a
certain self-sustained air which is apt to come upon children
who are left much to themselves. She was holding under
her arm a rag doll, apparently of her own workmanship,
and nearly as large as herself--a doll with a cylindrical
head, and features roughly indicated with charcoal. A long shawl,
evidently belonging to a grown person, dropped from her shoulders
and swept the floor.

The spectacle did not excite Mrs. Tretherick's delight. Perhaps she
had but a small sense of humor. Certainly, when the
child, still standing in the doorway, again asked, "Is it
Mamma?" she answered sharply, "No, it isn't," and turned a
severe look upon the intruder.

The child retreated a step, and then, gaining courage with
the distance, said in deliciously imperfect speech:

"Dow 'way then! why don't you dow away?"

But Mrs. Tretherick was eying the shawl. Suddenly she whipped
it off the child's shoulders, and said angrily:

"How dared you take my things, you bad child?"

"Is it yours? Then you are my mamma; ain't you?
You are Mamma!" she continued gleefully; and before Mrs. Tretherick
could avoid her, she had dropped her doll, and, catching
the woman's skirts with both hands, was dancing up and
down before her.

"What's your name, child?" said Mrs. Tretherick coldly, removing the
small and not very white hands from her garments.

"Tarry."

"Tarry?"

"Yeth. Tarry. Tarowline."

"Caroline?"

"Yeth. Tarowline Tretherick."

"Whose child ARE you?" demanded Mrs. Tretherick still more coldly,
to keep down a rising fear.

"Why, yours," said the little creature with a laugh. "I'm
your little durl. You're my mamma, my new mamma. Don't
you know my ol' mamma's dorn away, never to turn
back any more? I don't live wid my ol' mamma
now. I live wid you and Papa."

"How long have you been here?" asked Mrs. Tretherick snappishly.

"I fink it's free days," said Carry reflectively.

"You think! Don't you know?" sneered Mrs. Tretherick. "Then, where
did you come from?"

Carry's lip began to work under this sharp cross-examination. With
a great effort and a small gulp, she got the
better of it, and answered:

"Papa, Papa fetched me--from Miss Simmons--from Sacramento, last week."

"Last week! You said three days just now," returned Mrs.
Tretherick with severe deliberation.

"I mean a monf," said Carry, now utterly adrift in
sheer helplessness and confusion.

"Do you know what you are talking about?" demanded Mrs.
Tretherick shrilly, restraining an impulse to shake the little figure
before her and precipitate the truth by specific gravity.

But the flaming red head here suddenly disappeared in the
folds of Mrs. Tretherick's dress, as if it were trying
to extinguish itself forever.

"There now--stop that sniffling," said Mrs. Tretherick, extricating her dress
from the moist embraces of the child and feeling exceedingly
uncomfortable. "Wipe your face now, and run away, and don't
bother. Stop," she continued, as Carry moved away. "Where's your
papa?"

"He's dorn away too. He's sick. He's been dorn"--she hesitated--
"two, free, days."

"Who takes care of you, child?" said Mrs. Tretherick, eying
her curiously.

"John, the Chinaman. I tresses myselth. John tooks and makes
the beds."

"Well, now, run away and behave yourself, and don't bother
me any more," said Mrs. Tretherick, remembering the object of
her visit. "Stop--where are you going?" she added as the
child began to ascend the stairs, dragging the long doll
after her by one helpless leg.

"Doin' upstairs to play and be dood, and no bother
Mamma."

"I ain't your mamma," shouted Mrs. Tretherick, and then she
swiftly re-entered her bedroom and slammed the door.

Once inside, she drew forth a large trunk from the
closet and set to work with querulous and fretful haste
to pack her wardrobe. She tore her best dress in
taking it from the hook on which it hung: she
scratched her soft hands twice with an ambushed pin. All
the while, she kept up an indignant commentary on the
events of the past few moments. She said to herself
she saw it all. Tretherick had sent for this child
of his first wife--this child of whose existence he had
never seemed to care--just to insult her, to fill her
place. Doubtless the first wife herself would follow soon, or
perhaps there would be a third. Red hair, not auburn,
but RED--of course the child, this Caroline, looked like its
mother, and, if so, she was anything but pretty. Or
the whole thing had been prepared: this red-haired child, the
image of its mother, had been kept at a convenient
distance at Sacramento, ready to be sent for when needed.
She remembered his occasional visits there on-- business, as he
said. Perhaps the mother already was there; but no, she
had gone East. Nevertheless, Mrs. Tretherick, in her then state
of mind, preferred to dwell upon the fact that she
might be there. She was dimly conscious, also, of a
certain satisfaction in exaggerating her feelings. Surely no woman had
ever been so shamefully abused. In fancy, she sketched a
picture of herself sitting alone and deserted, at sunset, among
the fallen columns of a ruined temple, in a melancholy
yet graceful attitude, while her husband drove rapidly away in
a luxurious coach-and-four, with a red-haired woman at his side.
Sitting upon the trunk she had just packed, she partly
composed a lugubrious poem describing her sufferings as, wandering alone
and poorly clad, she came upon her husband and "another"
flaunting in silks and diamonds. She pictured herself dying of
consumption, brought on by sorrow--a beautiful wreck, yet still fascinating,
gazed upon adoringly by the editor of the AVALANCHE and
Colonel Starbottle. And where was Colonel Starbottle all this while?
Why didn't he come? He, at least, understood her. He--she
laughed the reckless, light laugh of a few moments before;
and then her face suddenly grew grave, as it had
not a few moments before.

What was that little red-haired imp doing all this time?
Why was she so quiet? She opened the door noiselessly,
and listened. She fancied that she heard, above the multitudinous
small noises and creakings and warpings of the vacant house,
a smaller voice singing on the floor above. This, as
she remembered, was only an open attic that had been
used as a storeroom. With a half-guilty consciousness, she crept
softly upstairs and, pushing the door partly open, looked within.

Athwart the long, low-studded attic, a slant sunbeam from a
single small window lay, filled with dancing motes, and only
half illuminating the barren, dreary apartment. In the ray of
this sunbeam she saw the child's glowing hair, as if
crowned by a red aureole, as she sat upon the
floor with her exaggerated doll between her knees. She appeared
to be talking to it; and it was not long
before Mrs. Tretherick observed that she was rehearsing the interview
of a half-hour before. She catechized the doll severely, cross-examining
it in regard to the duration of its stay there,
and generally on the measure of time. The imitation of
Mrs. Tretherick's manner was exceedingly successful, and the conversation almost
a literal reproduction, with a single exception. After she had
informed the doll that she was not her mother, at
the close of the interview she added pathetically, "that if
she was dood, very dood, she might be her mamma,
and love her very much."

I have already hinted that Mrs. Tretherick was deficient in
a sense of humor. Perhaps it was for this reason
that this whole scene affected her most unpleasantly; and the
conclusion sent the blood tingling to her cheek. There was
something, too, inconceivably lonely in the situation. The unfurnished vacant
room, the half- lights, the monstrous doll, whose very size
seemed to give a pathetic significance to its speechlessness, the
smallness of the one animate, self-centered figure--all these touched more
or less deeply the half-poetic sensibilities of the woman. She
could not help utilizing the impression as she stood there,
and thought what a fine poem might be constructed from
this material if the room were a little darker, the
child lonelier--say, sitting beside a dead mother's bier, and the
wind wailing in the turrets. And then she suddenly heard
footsteps at the door below, and recognized the tread of
the colonel's cane.

She flew swiftly down the stairs, and encountered the colonel
in the hall. Here she poured into his astonished ear
a voluble and exaggerated statement of her discovery, and indignant
recital of her wrongs. "Don't tell me the whole thing
wasn't arranged beforehand; for I know it was!" she almost
screamed. "And think," she added, "of the heartlessness of the
wretch, leaving his own child alone here in that way."

"It's a blank shame!" stammered the colonel, without the least
idea of what he was talking about. In fact, utterly
unable as he was to comprehend a reason for the
woman's excitement, with his estimate of her character, I fear
he showed it more plainly than he intended. He stammered,
expanded his chest, looked stern, gallant, tender, but all unintelligently.
Mrs. Tretherick, for an instant, experienced a sickening doubt of
the existence of natures in perfect affinity.

"It's of no use," said Mrs. Tretherick with sudden vehemence,
in answer to some inaudible remark of the colonel's, and
withdrawing her hand from the fervent grasp of that ardent
and sympathetic man. "It's of no use: my mind is
made up. You can send for my trunk as soon
as you like; but I shall stay here, and confront
that man with the proof of his vileness. I will
put him face to face with his infamy."

I do not know whether Colonel Starbottle thoroughly appreciated the
convincing proof of Tretherick's unfaithfulness and malignity afforded by the
damning evidence of the existence of Tretherick's own child in
his own house. He was dimly aware, however, of some
unforeseen obstacle to the perfect expression of the infinite longing
of his own sentimental nature. But, before he could say
anything, Carry appeared on the landing above them, looking timidly,
and yet half-critically, at the pair.

"That's her," said Mrs. Tretherick excitedly. In her deepest emotions,
in either verse or prose, she rose above a consideration
of grammatical construction.

"Ah!" said the colonel, with a sudden assumption of parental
affection and jocularity that was glaringly unreal and affected. "Ah!
pretty little girl, pretty little girl! How do you do?
How are you? You find yourself pretty well, do you,
pretty little girl?" The colonel's impulse also was to expand
his chest and swing his cane, until it occurred to
him that this action might be ineffective with a child
of six or seven. Carry, however, took no immediate notice
of this advance, but further discomposed the chivalrous colonel by
running quickly to Mrs. Tretherick and hiding herself, as if
for protection, in the folds of her gown. Nevertheless, the
colonel was not vanquished. Falling back into an attitude of
respectful admiration, he pointed out a marvelous resemblance to the
"Madonna and Child." Mrs. Tretherick simpered, but did not dislodge
Carry as before. There was an awkward pause for a
moment; and then Mrs. Tretherick, motioning significantly to the child,
said in a whisper: "Go now. Don't come here again,
but meet me tonight at the hotel." She extended her
hand: the colonel bent over it gallantly and, raising his
hat, the next moment was gone.

"Do you think," said Mrs. Tretherick with an embarrassed voice
and a prodigious blush, looking down, and addressing the fiery
curls just visible in the folds of her dress--"do you
think you will be 'dood' if I let you stay
in here and sit with me?"

"And let me tall you Mamma?" queried Carry, looking up.

"And let you call me Mamma!" assented Mrs. Tretherick with
an embarrassed laugh.

"Yeth," said Carry promptly.

They entered the bedroom together. Carry's eye instantly caught sight
of the trunk.

"Are you dowin' away adain, Mamma?" she said with a
quick nervous look, and a clutch at the woman's dress.

"No-o," said Mrs. Tretherick, looking out of the window.

"Only playing your dowin' away," suggested Carry with a laugh.
"Let me play too."

Mrs. Tretherick assented. Carry flew into the next room, and
presently reappeared dragging a small trunk, into which she gravely
proceeded to pack her clothes. Mrs. Tretherick noticed that they
were not many. A question or two regarding them brought
out some further replies from the child; and before many
minutes had elapsed, Mrs. Tretherick was in possession of all
her earlier history. But, to do this, Mrs. Tretherick had
been obliged to take Carry upon her lap, pending the
most confidential disclosures. They sat thus a long time after
Mrs. Tretherick had apparently ceased to be interested in Carry's
disclosures; and when lost in thought, she allowed the child
to rattle on unheeded, and ran her fingers through the
scarlet curls.

"You don't hold me right, Mamma," said Carry at last,
after one or two uneasy shiftings of position.

"How should I hold you?" asked Mrs. Tretherick with a
half-amused, half-embarrassed laugh.

"Dis way," said Carry, curling up into position, with one
arm around Mrs. Tretherick's neck and her cheek resting on
her bosom-- "dis way--dere." After a little preparatory nestling, not
unlike some small animal, she closed her eyes, and went
to sleep.

For a few moments the woman sat silent, scarcely daring
to breathe in that artificial attitude. And then, whether from
some occult sympathy in the touch, or God best knows
what, a sudden fancy began to thrill her. She began
by remembering an old pain that she had forgotten, an
old horror that she had resolutely put away all these
years. She recalled days of sickness and distrust--days of an
overshadowing fear--days of preparation for something that was to be
prevented, that WAS prevented, with mortal agony and fear. She
thought of a life that might have been--she dared not
say HAD been- -and wondered. It was six years ago;
if it had lived, it would have been as old
as Carry. The arms which were folded loosely around the
sleeping child began to tremble, and tighten their clasp. And
then the deep potential impulse came, and with a half-
sob, half-sigh, she threw her arms out and drew the
body of the sleeping child down, down, into her breast,
down again and again as if she would hide it
in the grave dug there years before. And the gust
that shook her passed, and then, ah me! the rain.

A drop or two fell upon the curls of Carry,
and she moved uneasily in her sleep. But the woman
soothed her again--it was SO easy to do it now--and
they sat there quiet and undisturbed, so quiet that they
might have seemed incorporate of the lonely silent house, the
slowly declining sunbeams, and the general air of desertion and
abandonment, yet a desertion that had in it nothing of
age, decay, or despair.

Colonel Starbottle waited at the Fiddletown Hotel all that night
in vain. And the next morning, when Mr. Tretherick returned
to his husks, he found the house vacant and untenanted,
except by motes and sunbeams.

When it was fairly known that Mrs. Tretherick had run
away, taking Mr. Tretherick's own child with her, there was
some excitement and much diversity of opinion, in Fiddletown. THE
DUTCH FLAT INTELLIGENCER openly alluded to the "forcible abduction" of
the child with the same freedom, and it is to
be feared the same prejudice, with which it had criticized
the abductor's poetry. All of Mrs. Tretherick's own sex, and
perhaps a few of the opposite sex, whose distinctive quality
was not, however, very strongly indicated, fully coincided in the
views of the INTELLIGENCER. The majority, however, evaded the moral
issue; that Mrs. Tretherick had shaken the red dust of
Fiddletown from her dainty slippers was enough for them to
know. They mourned the loss of the fair abductor more
than her offense. They promptly rejected Tretherick as an injured
husband and disconsolate father, and even went so far as
to openly cast discredit on the sincerity of his grief.
They reserved an ironical condolence for Colonel Starbottle, overbearing that
excellent man with untimely and demonstrative sympathy in barrooms, saloons,
and other localities not generally deemed favorable to the display
of sentiment. "She was alliz a skittish thing, Kernel," said
one sympathizer, with a fine affectation of gloomy concern and
great readiness of illustration; "and it's kinder nat'ril thet she'd
get away someday, and stampede that theer colt: but thet
she should shake YOU, Kernel, diet she should jist shake
you--is what gits me. And they do say thet you
jist hung around thet hotel all night, and payrolled them
corriders, and histed yourself up and down them stairs, and
meandered in and out o' thet piazzy, and all for
nothing?" It was another generous and tenderly commiserating spirit that
poured additional oil and wine on the colonel's wounds. "The
boys yer let on thet Mrs. Tretherick prevailed on ye
to pack her trunk and a baby over from the
house to the stage offis, and that the chap ez
did go off with her thanked you, and offered you
two short bits, and sed ez how he liked your
looks, and ud employ you agin--and now you say it
ain't so? Well, I'll tell the boys it ain't so,
and I'm glad I met you, for stories DO get
round."

Happily for Mrs. Tretherick's reputation, however, the Chinaman in Tretherick's
employment, who was the only eyewitness of her flight, stated
that she was unaccompanied, except by the child. He further
deposed that, obeying her orders, he had stopped the Sacramento
coach, and secured a passage for herself and child to
San Francisco. It was true that Ah Fe's testimony was
of no legal value. But nobody doubted it. Even those
who were skeptical of the pagan's ability to recognize the
sacredness of the truth admitted his passionless, unprejudiced unconcern. But
it would appear, from a hitherto unrecorded passage of this
veracious chronicle, that herein they were mistaken.

It was about six months after the disappearance of Mrs.
Tretherick that Ah Fe, while working in Tretherick's lot, was
hailed by two passing Chinamen. They were the ordinary mining
coolies, equipped with long poles and baskets for their usual
pilgrimages. An animated conversation at once ensued between Ah Fe
and his brother Mongolians--a conversation characterized by that usual shrill
volubility and apparent animosity which was at once the delight
and scorn of the intelligent Caucasian who did not understand
a word of it. Such, at least, was the feeling
with which Mr. Tretherick on his veranda and Colonel Starbottle,
who was passing, regarded their heathenish jargon. The gallant colonel
simply kicked them out of his way; the irate Tretherick,
with an oath, threw a stone at the group, and
dispersed them, but not before one or two slips of
yellow rice paper, marked with hieroglyphics, were exchanged, and a
small parcel put into Ah Fe's hands. When Ah Fe
opened this in the dim solitude of his kitchen, he
found a little girl's apron, freshly washed, ironed, and folded.
On the corner of the hem were the initials "C.
T." Ah Fe tucked it away in a