I

"HAMLET" was being played.

All tickets had been sold out before the morning of
the performance. The play was more than usually attractive to
the public because the principal part was to be taken
by the famous Kostromsky, who, ten years before, had begun
his artistic career with a simple walking-on part in this
very theatre, and since then had played in all parts
of Russia, and gained a resounding fame such as no
other actor visiting the provinces had ever obtained. It was
true that, during the last year, people had gossiped about
him, and there had even appeared in the Press certain
vague and only half-believed rumours about him. It was said
that continual drunkenness and debauch had unsettled and ruined Kostromsky's
gigantic talent, that only by being "on tour" had he
continued to enjoy the fruit of his past successes, that
impresarios of the great metropolitan theatres had begun to show
less of their former slavish eagerness to agree to his
terms. Who knows, there may have been a certain amount
of truth in these rumours? But the name of Kostromsky
was still great enough to draw the public. For three
days in succession, in spite of the increased prices of
seats, there had been a long line of people waiting
at the box office. Speculative buyers had resold tickets at
three, four, and even five times their original value.

The first scene was omitted, and the stage was being
prepared for the second. The footlights had not yet been
turned up. The scenery of the queen's palace was hanging
in strange, rough, variegated cardboard. The stage carpenters were hastily
driving in the last nails.

The theatre had gradually filled with people. From behind the
curtain could be heard a dull and monotonous murmur.

Kostromsky was seated in front of the mirror in his
dressing-room. He had only just arrived, but was already dressed
in the traditional costume of the Danish prince; black-cloth buckled
shoes, short black velvet jacket with wide lace collar. The
theatrical barber stood beside him in a servile attitude, holding
a wig of long fair hair.

"He is fat and pants for breath," declaimed Kostromsky, rubbing
some cold cream on his palm and beginning to smear
his face with it.

The barber suddenly began to laugh.

"What's the matter with you, fool?" asked the actor, not
taking his eyes from the mirror.

"Oh, I ... er ... nothing ... er...."

"Well, it's evident you're a fool. They say that I'm
too fat and flabby. And Shakspeare himself said that Hamlet
was fat and panted for breath. They're all good-for-nothings, these
newspaper fellows. They just bark at the wind."

Having finished with the cold cream, Kostromsky put the flesh
tints on to his face in the same manner, but
looking more attentively into the mirror.

"Yes, make-up is a great thing; but all the same,
my face is not what it used to be. Look
at the bags under my eyes, and the deep folds
round my mouth ... cheeks all puffed out ... nose
lost its fine shape. Ah, well, we'll struggle on a
bit longer.... Kean drank, Mochalof drank ... hang it all.
Let them talk about Kostromsky and say that he's a
bloated drunkard. Kostromsky will show them in a moment ...
these youngsters ... these water-people ... he'll show them what
real talent can do."

"You, Ethiop, have you ever seen me act?" he asked,
turning suddenly on the barber.

The man trembled all over with pleasure.

"Mercy on us, Alexander Yevgrafitch.... Yes, I ... O Lord!...
is it possible for me not to have seen the
greatest, one may say, of Russian artists? Why, in Kazan
I made a wig for you with my own hands."

"The devil may know you. I don't remember," said Kostromsky,
continuing to make long and narrow lines of white down
the length of his nose, "there are so many of
you.... Pour out something to drink!"

The barber poured out half a tumblerful of vodka from
the decanter on the marble dressing-table, and handed it to
Kostromsky.

The actor drank it off, screwed up his face, and
spat on the floor.

"You'd better have a little something to eat, Alexander Yevgrafitch,"
urged the barber persuasively. "If you take it neat ...
it goes to your head...."

Kostromsky had almost finished his make-up; he had only to
put on a few streaks of brown colouring, and the
"clouds of grief" overshadowed his changed and ennobled countenance.

"Give me my cloak!" said he imperiously to the barber,
getting up from his chair.

From the theatre there could already be heard, in the
dressing-room, the sounds of the tuning of the instruments in
the orchestra.

The crowds of people had all arrived. The living stream
could be heard pouring into the theatre and flowing into
the boxes stalls and galleries with the noise and the
same kind of peculiar rumble as of a far-off sea.

"It's a long time since the place has been so
full," remarked the barber in servile ecstasy; "there's n-not an
empty seat!"

Kostromsky sighed.

He was still confident in his great talent, still full
of a frank self-adoration and the illimitable pride of an
artist, but, although he hardly dared to allow himself to
be conscious of it, he had an uneasy feeling that
his laurels had begun to fade. Formerly he had never
consented to come to the theatre until the director had
brought to his hotel the stipulated five hundred roubles, his
night's pay, and he had sometimes taken offence in the
middle of a play and gone home, swearing with all
his might at the director, the manager, and the whole
company.

The barber's remark was a vivid and painful reminder of
these years of his extraordinary and colossal successes. Nowadays no
director would bring him payment in advance, and he could
not bring himself to contrive to demand it.

"Pour out some more vodka," said he to the barber.

There was no more vodka left in the decanter. But
the actor had received sufficient stimulus. His eyes, encircled by
fine sharp lines of black drawn along both eyelids, were
larger and more full of life, his bent body straightened
itself, his swollen legs, in their tight-fitting black, looked lithe
and strong.

He finished his toilet by dusting powder over his face,
with an accustomed hand, then slightly screwing up his eyes
he regarded himself in the mirror for the last time,
and went out of the dressing-room.

When he descended the staircase, with his slow self-reliant step,
his head held high, every movement of his was marked
by that easy gracious simplicity which had so impressed the
actors of the French company, who had seen him when
he, a former draper's assistant, had first appeared in Moscow.

II

The stage manager had already rushed forward to greet Kostromsky.

The lights in the theatre blazed high. The chaotic disharmony
of the orchestra tuning their instruments suddenly died down. The
noise of the crowd grew louder, and then, as it
were, suddenly subsided a little.

Out broke the sounds of a loud triumphal march. Kostromsky
went up to the curtain and looked through a little
round hole made in it at about a man's height.
The theatre was crowded with people. He could only see
distinctly the faces of those in the first three rows,
but beyond, wherever his eye turned, to left, to right,
above, below, there moved, in a sort of bluish haze,
an immense number of many-coloured human blobs. Only the side
boxes, with their white and gold arabesques and their crimson
barriers, stood out against all this agitated obscurity. But as
he looked through the little hole in the curtain, Kostromsky
did not experience in his soul that feeling—once so familiar
and always singularly fresh and powerful—of a joyous, instantaneous uplifting
of his whole moral being. It was just a year
since he had ceased to feel so, and he explained
his indifference by thinking he had grown accustomed to the
stage, and did not suspect that this was the beginning
of paralysis of his tired and worn-out soul.

The manager rushed on to the stage behind him, all
red and perspiring, with dishevelled hair.

"Devil! Idiocy! All's gone to the devil! One might as
well cut one's throat," he burst out in a voice
of fury, running up to Kostromsky. "Here you, devils, let
me come to the curtain! I must go out and
tell the people at once that there will be no
performance. There's no Ophelia. Understand! There's no Ophelia."

"How do you mean there's no Ophelia?" said the astonished
Kostromsky, knitting his brows. "You're joking, aren't you, my friend?"

"There's no joking in me," snarled the manager. "Only just
this moment, five minutes before she's wanted, I receive this
little billet-doux from Milevskaya. Just look, look, what this idiot
writes! 'I'm in bed with a feverish cold and can't
play my part.' Well? Don't you understand what it means?
This is not a pound of raisins, old man, pardon
the expression, it means we can't produce the play."

"Someone else must take her place," Kostromsky flashed out. "What
have her tricks to do with me?"

"Who can take her place, do you think? Bobrova is
Gertrude, Markovitch and Smolenskaya have a holiday and they've gone
off to the town with some officers. It would be
ridiculous to make an old woman take the part of
Ophelia. Don't you think so? Or there's someone else if
you like, a young girl student. Shall we ask her?"

He pointed straight in front of him to a young
girl who was just walking on to the stage; a
girl in a modest coat and fur cap, with gentle
pale face and large dark eyes.

The young girl, astonished at such unexpected attention, stood still.

"Who is she?" asked Kostromsky in a low voice, looking
with curiosity at the girl's face.

"Her name's Yureva. She's here as a student. She's smitten
with a passion for dramatic art, you see," answered the
manager, speaking loudly and without any embarrassment.

"Listen to me, Yureva. Have you ever read 'Hamlet'?" asked
Kostromsky, going nearer to the girl.

"Of course I have," answered she in a low confused
voice.

"Could you play Ophelia here this evening?"

"I know the part by heart, but I don't know
if I could play it."

Kostromsky went close up to her and took her by
the hand.

"You see ... Milevskaya has refused to play, and the
theatre's full. Make up your mind, my dear! You can
be the saving of us all!"

Yureva hesitated and was silent, though she would have liked
to say much, very much, to the famous actor. It
was he who, three years ago, by his marvellous acting,
had unconsciously drawn her young heart, with an irresistible attraction,
to the stage. She had never missed a performance in
which he had taken part, and she had often wept
at nights after seeing him act in "Cain," in "The
Criminal's Home," or in "Uriel da Costa." She would have
accounted it her greatest happiness, and one apparently never to
be attained ... not to speak to Kostromsky; no, of
that she had never dared to dream, but only to
see him nearer in ordinary surroundings.

She had never lost her admiration of him, and only
an actor like Kostromsky, spoilt by fame and satiated by
the attentions of women, could have failed to notice at
rehearsals the two large dark eyes which followed him constantly
with a frank and persistent adoration.

"Well, what is it? Can we take your silence for
consent?" insisted Kostromsky, looking into her face with a searching,
kindly glance, and putting into the somewhat nasal tones of
his voice that irresistible tone of friendliness which he well
knew no woman could withstand.

Yureva's hand trembled in his, her eyelids drooped, and she
answered submissively:

"Very well. I'll go and dress at once."

III

The curtain rose, and no sooner did the public see
their favourite than the theatre shook with sounds of applause
and cries of ecstasy.

Kostromsky standing near the king's throne, bowed many times, pressed
his hand to his heart, and sent his gaze over
the whole assembly.

At length, after several unsuccessful attempts, the king, taking advantage
of a moment when the noise had subsided a little,
raised his voice and began his speech:

The enthusiasm of the crowd had affected Kostromsky, and when
the king turned to him, and addressed him as "brother
and beloved son," the words of Hamlet's answer:

"A little more than kin and less than kind," sounded
so gloomily ironical and sad that an involuntary thrill ran
through the audience.

And when the queen, with hypocritical words of consolation, said:

he slowly raised his long eyelashes, which he had kept
lowered until that moment, looked reproachfully at her, and then
answered with a slight shake of the head:

"Ay, madam, it is common." After these words, expressing so
fully his grief for his dead father, his own aversion
from life and submission to fate, and his bitter scorn
of his mother's light-mindedness, Kostromsky, with the special, delicate, inexplicable
sensitiveness of an experienced actor, felt that now he had
entirely gripped his audience and bound them to him with
an inviolable chain.

It seemed as if no one had ever before spoken
with such marvellous force that despairing speech of Hamlet at
the exit of the king and queen:

The nasal tones of Kostromsky's voice were clear and flexible.
Now it rang out with a mighty clang, then sank
to a gentle velvety whisper or burst into hardly restrained
sobs.

And when, with a simple yet elegant gesture, Kostromsky pronounced
the last words:

"But break my heart, for I must hold my tongue!"

the audience roared out its applause.

"Yes, the public and I understand one another," said the
actor as he went off the stage into the wings
after the first act. "Here, you crocodile, give me some
vodka!" he shouted at once to the barber who was
coming to meet him.

IV

"Well, little father, don't you think he's fine?" said a
young actor-student to Yakovlef, the patriarch of provincial actors, who
was taking the part of the king.

The two were standing together on the staircase which led
from the dressing-rooms to the stage. Yakovlef pursed and bit
his full thick lips.

"Fine! Fine! But all the same, he acts as a
boy. Those who saw Mochalof play Hamlet wouldn't marvel at
this. I, brother, was just such a little chap as
you are when I had the happiness of seeing him
first. And when I come to die, I shall look
back on that as the most blessed moment of my
life. When he got up from the floor of the
stage and said:

"'Let the stricken deer go weep' the audience rose as
one man, hardly daring to breathe. And now watch carefully
how Kostromsky takes that very scene."

"You're very hard to please, Valerie Nikolaitch."

"Not at all. But you watch him; to tell, you
the truth, I can't. Do you think I am watching
him?"

"Well, who then?"

"Ah, brother, look at Ophelia. There's an actress for you!"

"But Valerie Nikolaitch, she's only a student."

"Idiot! Don't mind that. You didn't notice how she said
the words:

Of course you didn't. And I've been nearly thirty years
on the stage, and I tell you I've never heard
anything like it. She's got talent. You mark my words,
in the fourth act she'll have such a success that
your Kostromsky will be in a fury. You see!"

V

The play went on. The old man's prophecy was abundantly
fulfilled. The enthusiasm of Kostromsky only lasted out the first
act. It could not be roused again by repeated calls
before the curtain, by applause, or by the gaze of
his enormous crowd of admirers, who thronged into the wings
to look at him with gentle reverence. There now remained
in him only the very smallest store of that energy
and feeling which he had expended with such royal generosity
three years ago on every act.

He had wasted his now insignificant store in the first
act, when he had been intoxicated by the loud cries
of welcome and applause from the public. His will was
weakened, his nerves unbraced, and not even increased doses of
alcohol could revive him. The imperceptible ties which had connected
him with his audience at first were gradually weakening, and,
though the applause at the end of the second act
was as sincere as at the end of the first,
yet it was clear that the people were applauding, not
him, but the charm of his name and fame.

Meanwhile, each time she appeared on the stage, Ophelia—Yureva—progressed in
favour. This hitherto unnoticed girl, who had previously played only
very minor parts, was now, as it were, working a
miracle. She seemed a living impersonation of the real daughter
of Polonius, a gentle, tender, obedient daughter, with deep hidden
feeling and great love in her soul, empoisoned by the
venom of grief.

The audience did not yet applaud Yureva, but they watched
her, and whenever she came on the stage the whole
theatre calmed down to attention. She herself had no suspicion
that she was in competition with the great actor, and
taking from him attention and success, and even the spectators
themselves were unconscious of the struggle.

The third act was fatal for Kostromsky. His appearance in
it was preceded by the short scene in which the
king and Polonius agree to hide themselves and listen to
the conversation between Hamlet and Ophelia, in order to judge
of the real reason of the prince's madness. Kostromsky came
out from the wings with slow steps, his hands crossed
upon his breast, his head bent low, his stockings unfastened
and the right one coming down.

"To be or not to be--that is the question."

He spoke almost inaudibly, all overborne by serious thought, and
did not notice Ophelia, who sat at the back of
the stage with an open book on her knee.

This famous soliloquy had always been one of Kostromsky's show
places. Some years ago, in this very town and this
very theatre, after he had finished this speech by his
invocation to Ophelia, there had been for a moment that
strange and marvellous silence which speaks more eloquently than the
noisiest applause. And then everyone in the theatre had gone
into an ecstasy of applause, from the humblest person in
the back row of the gallery to the exquisites in
the private boxes.

Alas, now both Kostromsky himself and his audience remained cold
and unmoved, though he was not yet conscious of it.

he went on, gesticulating and changing his intonation from old
memory. And he thought to himself that when he saw
Ophelia he would go down on his knees in front
of her and say the final words of his speech,
and that the audience would weep and cry out with
a sweet foolishness.

And there was Ophelia. He turned to the audience with
a cautious warning "Soft you, now!" and then walking swiftly
across the stage he knelt down and exclaimed:

and then got up immediately, expecting a burst of applause.

But there was no applause. The public were puzzled, quite
unmoved, and all their attention was turned on Ophelia.

For some seconds he could think of nothing; it was
only when he heard at his side a gentle girl's
voice asking, "Prince, are you well?"—a voice which trembled with
the tears of sorrow for a love destroyed—that, in a
momentary flash, he understood all.

It was a moment of awful enlightenment. Kostromsky recognised it
clearly and mercilessly—the indifference of the public; his own irrevocable
past; the certainty of the near approach of the end
to his noisy but short-lived fame.

Oh, with what hatred did he look upon this girl,
so graceful, beautiful, innocent, and—tormenting thought—so full of talent. He
would have liked to throw himself upon her, beat her,
throw her on the ground and stamp with his feet
upon that delicate face, with its large dark eyes looking
up at him with love and pity. But he restrained
himself, and answered in lowered tones:

"I humbly thank you; well, well, well." After this scene
Kostromsky was recalled, but he heard, much louder than his
own name, the shouts from the gallery, full with students,
for Yureva, who, however, refused to appear.

VI

The strolling players were playing "The Murder of Gonzago." Kostromsky
was half sitting, half lying on the floor opposite to
the court, his head on Ophelia's knees. Suddenly he turned
his face upward to her, and giving forth an overwhelming
odour of spirit, whispered in drunken tones:

"Listen, madam. What's your name? Listen!"

She bent down a little towards him, and said in
an answering whisper:

"What is it?"

"What pretty feet you have!" said he. "Listen! You must
be pretty ... everywhere."

Yureva turned away her face in silence.

"I mean it, by heaven!" Kostromsky went on, nothing daunted.
"No doubt you have a lover here, haven't you?"

She made no reply.

Kostromsky wanted to insult her still more, to hurt her,
and her silence was a new irritation to him.

"You have? Oh, that's very very foolish of you. Such
a face as yours is ... is your whole capital....
You will pardon my frankness, but you're no actress. What
are you doing on the stage?"

Fortunately, it was necessary for him to take part in
the acting. Yureva was left in peace, and she moved
a little away from him. Her eyes filled with tears.
In Kostromsky's face she had seen a spiteful and merciless
enemy.

But Kostromsky became less powerful in each scene, and when
the act was finished there was very slight applause to
gratify him. But no one else was clapped.

VII

The fourth act commenced. As soon as Ophelia came on
to the stage in her white dress, adorned with flowers
and straw, her eyes wide open and staring, a confused
murmur ran through the audience, and was followed by an
almost painful silence.

And when Ophelia sang her little songs about her dear
love, in gentle, naïve tones, there was a strange breathing
among the audience as if a deep and general sigh
had burst from a thousand breasts:

"Oh, poor Ophelia! What are you singing?" asked the queen
sympathetically.

The witless eyes of Ophelia were turned on the queen
in wonder, as if she had not noticed her before.

"What am I singing?" she asked in astonishment.

"Listen to my song:

No one in the theatre could look on with indifference,
all were in the grip of a common feeling, all
sat as if enchanted, never moving their eyes from the
stage.

But more persistently, and more eagerly than anyone else, Kostromsky
stood in the wings and watched her every movement. In
his soul, his sick and proud soul, which had never
known restraint or limit to its own desires and passions,
there now blazed a terrible and intolerable hatred. He felt
that this poor and modest girl-student had definitely snatched from
his hands the evening's success. His drunkenness had, as it
were, quite gone out of his head. He did not
yet know how this envious spite which boiled in him
could expend itself, but he awaited impatiently the time when
Ophelia would come off the stage.

"I hope all will be well. We must be patient;
but I cannot choose but weep to think they should
lay him in the cold ground,"

he heard Ophelia say, in a voice choked with the
madness of grief.

"My brother shall know of it, and so I thank
you for your good counsel. Come, my coach! Good-night, ladies;
good-night, sweet ladies; good-night, good-night."

Yureva came out in the wings, agitated, breathing deeply, pale
even under her make-up. She was followed by deafening cries
from the audience. In the doorway she stumbled up against
Kostromsky. He purposely made no way for her, but she,
even when her shoulder brushed against his, did not notice
him, so excited was she by her acting and the
rapturous applause of the public.

"Yureva! Yureva! Brav-o-o!"

She went back and bowed.

As she returned again to the wings she again stumbled
against Kostromsky, who would not allow her to pass. Yureva
looked at him with a terrified glance, and said timidly:

"Please allow me to pass!"

"Be more careful please, young person!" answered he, with malicious
haughtiness. "If you are applauded by a crowd of such
idiots, it doesn't mean you can push into people with
impunity." And seeing her silent and frightened, he became still
more infuriated, and taking her roughly by the arm he
pushed her on one side and cried out:

"Yes, you can pass, devil take you, blockhead that you
are!"

VIII

When Kostromsky had quieted down a little after this rude
outburst of temper, he at once became weaker, slacker and
more drunken than before; he even forgot that the play
had not yet finished. He went into his dressing-room, slowly
undressed, and began lazily to rub the paint from his
face with vaseline.

The manager, puzzled by his long absence, ran into his
room at last and stared in amazement.

"Alexander Yevgrafitch! Please! What are you doing? It's time for
you to go on!"

"Go away, go away!" muttered Kostromsky tearfully, speaking through his
nose, and wiping his face with the towel. "I've finished
everything ... go away and leave me in peace!"

"What d'you mean, go away? Have you gone out of
your mind? The audience is waiting!"

"Leave me alone!" cried Kostromsky.

The manager shrugged his shoulders and went out. In a
few moments the curtain was raised, and the public, having
been informed of Kostromsky's sudden illness, began to disperse slowly
and silently as if they were going away from a
funeral.

They had indeed been present at the funeral of a
great and original talent, and Kostromsky was right when he
said that he had "finished." He had locked the door,
and sat by himself in front of the mirror in
his dressing-room between two gas burners, the flames of which
flared with a slight noise. From old habit he was
carefully wiping his face, all smeared over with drunken but
bitter tears. His mind recalled, as through a mist, the
long line of splendid triumphs which had accompanied the first
years of his career. Wreaths ... bouquets ... thousands of
presents ... the eternal raptures of the crowd ... the
flattery of newspapers ... the envy of his companions ...
the fabulous benefits ... the adoration of the most beautiful
of women.... Was it possible that all this was past?
Could his talent really have gone—vanished? Perhaps it had left
him long ago, two or three years back! And he,
Kostromsky, what was he now? A theme for dirty theatrical
gossip; an object of general mockery and ill-will; a man
who had alienated all his friends by his unfeeling narrow-mindedness,
his selfishness, his impatience, his unbridled arrogance.... Yes, it was
all past!

"And if the Almighty"—the well-known lines flashed into his memory—"had
not fixed his canon 'gainst self-slaughter.... Oh, my God, my
God!" The burning, helpless tears trickled down his erstwhile beautiful
face and mingled with the colours of the paint.

All the other actors had left the theatre when Kostromsky
came out of his dressing-room. It was almost dark on
the stage. Some workmen were wandering about, removing the last
decorations. He walked along gropingly, with quiet footfalls, avoiding the
heaps of property rubbish which were scattered everywhere about, and
making his way towards the street.

Suddenly he was arrested by the sound of the restrained
sobbing of a woman.

"Who is there?" he cried, going into a corner, with
an undefined impulse of pity.

The dark figure made no answer; the sobs increased.

"Who's crying there?" he asked again, in fear, and at
once recognised that it was Yureva who was sobbing there.

The girl was weeping, her thin shoulders heaving with convulsive
shudders.

It was strange. For the first time in his life
Kostromsky's hard heart suddenly overflowed with a deep pity for
this unprotected girl, whom he had so unjustifiably insulted. He
placed his hand on her head and began to speak
to her in an impressive and affectionate voice, quite naturally
and unaffectedly.

"My child! I was dreadfully rude to you to-day. I
won't ask your forgiveness; I know I could never atone
for your tears. But if you could have known what
was happening in my soul, perhaps you would forgive me
and be sorry for me.... To-day, only to-day, I have
understood that I have outlived my fame. What grief is
there to compare with that? What, in comparison with that,
would mean the loss of a mother, of a beloved
child, of a lover? We artists live by terrible enjoyments;
we live and feel for those hundreds and thousands of
people who come to look at us. Do you know
... oh, you must understand that I'm not showing off,
I'm speaking quite simply to you.... Yes. Do you know
that for the last five years there's not been an
actor in the world whose name was greater than mine?
Crowds have lain at my feet, at the feet of
an illiterate draper's assistant. And suddenly, in one moment, I've
fallen headlong from those marvellous heights...." He covered his face
with his hands. "It's terrible!"

Yureva had stopped weeping, and was looking at Kostromsky with
deep compassion.

"You see, my dear," he went on, taking her cold
hands in his. "You have a great and undoubted talent.
Keep on the stage. I won't talk to you about
such trivialities as the envy and intrigues of those who
cannot act, or about the equivocal protection afforded by patrons
of dramatic art, or about the gossip of that marsh
which we call Society. All these are trifles, and not
to be compared with those stupendous joys which a contemptible
but adoring crowd can give to us. But"—Kostromsky's voice trembled
nervously—"but do not outlive your fame. Leave the stage directly
you feel that the sacred flame in you is burning
low. Do not wait, my child, for the public to
drive you away."

And turning quickly away from Yureva, who was trying to
say something and even holding out her hands to him,
he hurriedly walked off the stage.

"Wait a moment, Alexander Yevgrafitch," the manager called after him
as he went out into the street, "come into the
office for your money."

"Get away!" said Kostromsky, waving his hand, in vexation, irritably.
"I have finished. I have finished with it all."