I

In Petersburg in the eighteen-forties a surprising event occurred. Anofficer
of the Cuirassier Life Guards, a handsome prince who everyonepredicted
would become aide-de-camp to the Emperor Nicholas I and havea
brilliant career, left the service, broke off his engagement to
abeautiful maid of honour, a favourite of the Empress's, gave
his smallestate to his sister, and retired to a monastery
to become a monk.

This event appeared extraordinary and inexplicable to those who did
notknow his inner motives, but for Prince Stepan Kasatsky himself
it alloccurred so naturally that he could not imagine how
he could have actedotherwise.

His father, a retired colonel of the Guards, had died
when Stepan wastwelve, and sorry as his mother was to
part from her son, she enteredhim at the Military College
as her deceased husband had intended.

The widow herself, with her daughter, Varvara, moved to Petersburg
to benear her son and have him with her for
the holidays.

The boy was distinguished both by his brilliant ability and
by hisimmense self-esteem. He was first both in his studies--especially
inmathematics, of which he was particularly fond--and also in drill
and inriding. Though of more than average height, he was
handsome and agile,and he would have been an altogether exemplary
cadet had it not been forhis quick temper. He was
remarkably truthful, and was neither dissipatednor addicted to drink. The
only faults that marred his conduct werefits of fury to
which he was subject and during which he lost control
ofhimself and became like a wild animal. He once nearly
threw out of thewindow another cadet who had begun to
tease him about his collectionof minerals. On another occasion he
came almost completely to griefby flinging a whole dish of
cutlets at an officer who was acting assteward, attacking him
and, it was said, striking him for having brokenhis word
and told a barefaced lie. He would certainly have been
reducedto the ranks had not the Director of the College
hushed up the wholematter and dismissed the steward.

By the time he was eighteen he had finished his
College course andreceived a commission as lieutenant in an aristocratic
regiment of theGuards.

The Emperor Nicholas Pavlovich (Nicholas I) had noticed him while
hewas still at the College, and continued to take notice
of him in theregiment, and it was on this account
that people predicted for him anappointment as aide-de-camp to the
Emperor. Kasatsky himself stronglydesired it, not from ambition only but
chiefly because since his cadetdays he had been passionately devoted
to Nicholas Pavlovich. The Emperorhad often visited the Military College
and every time Kasatsky sawthat tall erect figure, with breast
expanded in its military overcoat,entering with brisk step, saw the
cropped side-whiskers, the moustache,the aquiline nose, and heard the sonorous
voice exchanging greetingswith the cadets, he was seized by the
same rapture that he experiencedlater on when he met the
woman he loved. Indeed, his passionateadoration of the Emperor was
even stronger: he wished to sacrificesomething--everything, even himself--to prove his
complete devotion.And the Emperor Nicholas was conscious of evoking this
rapture anddeliberately aroused it. He played with the cadets, surrounded
himselfwith them, treating them sometimes with childish simplicity, sometimesas a
friend, and then again with majestic solemnity. After that affairwith
the officer, Nicholas Pavlovich said nothing to Kasatsky, but whenthe
latter approached he waved him away theatrically, frowned, shook hisfinger
at him, and afterwards when leaving, said: 'Remember that I
knoweverything. There are some things I would rather not know,
but theyremain here,' and he pointed to his heart.

When on leaving College the cadets were received by the
Emperor, he didnot again refer to Kasatsky's offence, but told
them all, as was hiscustom, that they should serve him
and the fatherland loyally, that hewould always be their best
friend, and that when necessary they mightapproach him direct. All
the cadets were as usual greatly moved, andKasatsky even shed
tears, remembering the past, and vowed that he wouldserve his
beloved Tsar with all his soul.

When Kasatsky took up his commission his mother moved with
her daughterfirst to Moscow and then to their country estate.
Kasatsky gave half hisproperty to his sister and kept only
enough to maintain himself in theexpensive regiment he had joined.

To all appearance he was just an ordinary, brilliant young
officerof the Guards making a career for himself; but intense
and complexstrivings went on within him. From early childhood his
efforts hadseemed to be very varied, but essentially they were
all one and thesame. He tried in everything he took
up to attain such success andperfection as would evoke praise
and surprise. Whether it was hisstudies or his military exercises,
he took them up and worked at themtill he was
praised and held up as an example to others. Mastering
onesubject he took up another, and obtained first place in
his studies. Forexample, while still at College he noticed in
himself an awkwardness inFrench conversation, and contrived to master French
till he spoke itas well as Russian, and then he
took up chess and became an excellentplayer.

Apart from his main vocation, which was the service of
his Tsar andthe fatherland, he always set himself some particular
aim, and howeverunimportant it was, devoted himself completely to it
and lived for ituntil it was accomplished. And as soon
as it was attained anotheraim would immediately present itself, replacing
its predecessor. Thispassion for distinguishing himself, or for accomplishing somethingin
order to distinguish himself, filled his life. On taking up
hiscommission he set himself to acquire the utmost perfection in
knowledgeof the service, and very soon became a model officer,
though still withthe same fault of ungovernable irascibility, which here
in the serviceagain led him to commit actions inimical to
his success. Then he took toreading, having once in conversation
in society felt himself deficientin general education--and again achieved his
purpose. Then, wishingto secure a brilliant position in high society,
he learnt to danceexcellently and very soon was invited to
all the balls in the bestcircles, and to some of
their evening gatherings. But this did notsatisfy him: he was
accustomed to being first, and in this society wasfar from
being so.

The highest society then consisted, and I think always consist,
offour sorts of people: rich people who are received at
Court, peoplenot wealthy but born and brought up in Court
circles, rich people whoingratiate themselves into the Court set, and
people neither rich norbelonging to the Court but who ingratiate
themselves into the first andsecond sets.

Kasatsky did not belong to the first two sets, but
was readily welcomedin the others. On entering society he determined
to have relations withsome society lady, and to his own
surprise quickly accomplished thispurpose. He soon realized, however, that the
circles in which he movedwere not the highest, and that
though he was received in the highestspheres he did not
belong to them. They were polite to him, but showedby
their whole manner that they had their own set and
that he was not ofit. And Kasatsky wished to belong
to that inner circle. To attain thatend it would be
necessary to be an aide-de-camp to the Emperor--whichhe expected to
become--or to marry into that exclusive set, which heresolved to
do. And his choice fell on a beauty belonging to
theCourt, who not merely belonged to the circle into which
he wished to beaccepted, but whose friendship was coveted by
the very highest peopleand those most firmly established in that
highest circle. This wasCountess Korotkova. Kasatsky began to pay court
to her, and not merelyfor the sake of his career.
She was extremely attractive and he soonfell in love with
her. At first she was noticeably cool towards him,but then
suddenly changed and became gracious, and her mother gave himpressing
invitations to visit them. Kasatsky proposed and was accepted.He was
surprised at the facility with which he attained such happiness.But
though he noticed something strange and unusual in the behaviourtowards
him of both mother and daughter, he was blinded by
beingso deeply in love, and did not realize what almost
the whole townknew--namely, that his fiancee had been the Emperor
Nicholas's mistressthe previous year.

Two weeks before the day arranged for the wedding, Kasatsky
was atTsarskoe Selo at his fiancee's country place. It was
a hot day in May.He and his betrothed had walked
about the garden and were sitting ona bench in a
shady linden alley. Mary's white muslin dress suited herparticularly well,
and she seemed the personification of innocence andlove as she
sat, now bending her head, now gazing up at the
very talland handsome man who was speaking to her with
particular tenderness andself-restraint, as if he feared by word or
gesture to offend or sullyher angelic purity.

Kasatsky belonged to those men of the eighteen-forties (they are
now nolonger to be found) who while deliberately and without
any conscientiousscruples condoning impurity in themselves, required ideal and angelicpurity
in their women, regarded all unmarried women of their circle
aspossessed of such purity, and treated them accordingly. There was
muchthat was false and harmful in this outlook, as concerning
the laxity themen permitted themselves, but in regard to the
women that old-fashionedview (sharply differing from that held by young
people to-day who see inevery girl merely a female seeking
a mate) was, I think, of value. Thegirls, perceiving such
adoration, endeavoured with more or less successto be goddesses.

Such was the view Kasatsky held of women, and that
was how he regardedhis fiancee. He was particularly in love
that day, but did notexperience any sensual desire for her.
On the contrary he regarded herwith tender adoration as something
unattainable.

He rose to his full height, standing before her with
both hands on hissabre.

'I have only now realized what happiness a man can
experience! And it isyou, my darling, who have given me
this happiness,' he said with a timidsmile.

Endearments had not yet become usual between them, and feeling
himselfmorally inferior he felt terrified at this stage to use
them to such anangel.

'It is thanks to you that I have come to
know myself. I have learnt thatI am better than I
thought.'

'I have known that for a long time. That was
why I began to love you.'

Nightingales trilled near by and the fresh leafage rustled, moved
by apassing breeze.

He took her hand and kissed it, and tears came
into his eyes.

She understood that he was thanking her for having said
she loved him.He silently took a few steps up and
down, and then approached her againand sat down.

'You know . . . I have to tell you
. . . I was not disinterested when Ibegan to
make love to you. I wanted to get into society;
but later . . .how unimportant that became in comparison
with you--when I got to knowyou. You are not angry
with me for that?'

She did not reply but merely touched his hand. He
understood that thismeant: 'No, I am not angry.'

'You said . . .' He hesitated. It seemed too
bold to say. 'You said thatyou began to love me.
I believe it--but there is something that troublesyou and checks
your feeling. What is it?'

'Yes--now or never!' thought she. 'He is bound to know
of it anyway. Butnow he will not forsake me. Ah,
if he should, it would be terrible!' Andshe threw a
loving glance at his tall, noble, powerful figure. She lovedhim
now more than she had loved the Tsar, and apart
from the Imperialdignity would not have preferred the Emperor to
him.

'Listen! I cannot deceive you. I have to tell you.
You ask what it is?It is that I have loved
before.'

She again laid her hand on his with an imploring
gesture. He was silent.

'You want to know who it was? It was--the Emperor.'

'We all love him. I can imagine you, a schoolgirl
at the Institute . . .'

'No, it was later. I was infatuated, but it passed
. . . I must tellyou . . .'

'Well, what of it?'

'No, it was not simply--' She covered her face with
her hands.

'What? You gave yourself to him?'

She was silent.

'His mistress?'

She did not answer.

He sprang up and stood before her with trembling jaws,
pale as death. Henow remembered how the Emperor, meeting him
on the Nevsky, had amiablycongratulated him.

'O God, what have I done! Stiva!'

'Don't touch me! Don't touch me! Oh, how it pains!'

He turned away and went to the house. There he
met her mother.

'What is the matter, Prince? I . . .' She
became silent on seeing hisface. The blood had suddenly rushed
to his head.

'You knew it, and used me to shield them! If
you weren't a woman . . . !'he cried, lifting
his enormous fist, and turning aside he ran away.

Had his fiancee's lover been a private person he would
have killed him,but it was his beloved Tsar.

Next day he applied both for furlough and his discharge,
and professingto be ill, so as to see no one,
he went away to the country.

He spent the summer at his village arranging his affairs.
When summerwas over he did not return to Petersburg, but
entered a monastery andthere became a monk.

His mother wrote to try to dissuade him from this
decisive step, buthe replied that he felt God's call which
transcended all otherconsiderations. Only his sister, who was as proud
and ambitious as he,understood him.

She understood that he had become a monk in order
to be above those whoconsidered themselves his superiors. And she
understood him correctly.By becoming a monk he showed contempt for
all that seemed most importantto others and had seemed so
to him while he was in the service, andhe now
ascended a height from which he could look down on
those he hadformerly envied. . . . But it was
not this alone, as his sister Varvarasupposed, that influenced him.
There was also in him something else--asincere religious feeling which
Varvara did not know, which intertwineditself with the feeling of
pride and the desire for pre-eminence,and guided him. His disillusionment
with Mary, whom he had thoughtof angelic purity, and his
sense of injury, were so strong that theybrought him to
despair, and the despair led him--to what? To God, to
hischildhood's faith which had never been destroyed in him.

II

Kasatsky entered the monastery on the feast of the Intercession
of theBlessed Virgin. The Abbot of that monastery was a
gentleman by birth, alearned writer and a starets, that is,
he belonged to that successionof monks originating in Walachia who
each choose a director and teacherwhom they implicitly obey. This
Superior had been a disciple of thestarets Ambrose, who was
a disciple of Makarius, who was a disciple ofthe starets
Leonid, who was a disciple of Paussy Velichkovsky.

To this Abbot Kasatsky submitted himself as to his chosen
director. Herein the monastery, besides the feeling of ascendency over
others thatsuch a life gave him, he felt much as
he had done in the world: he foundsatisfaction in attaining
the greatest possible perfection outwardlyas well as inwardly. As in
the regiment he had been not merely anirreproachable officer but
had even exceeded his duties and widened theborders of perfection,
so also as a monk he tried to be perfect,
and wasalways industrious, abstemious, submissive, and meek, as well aspure
both in deed and in thought, and obedient. This last
quality inparticular made life far easier for him. If many
of the demands of lifein the monastery, which was near
the capital and much frequented, didnot please him and were
temptations to him, they were all nullified byobedience: 'It is
not for me to reason; my business is to do
the taskset me, whether it be standing beside the relics,
singing in the choir,or making up accounts in the monastery
guest-house.' All possibility ofdoubt about anything was silenced by obedience
to the starets. Hadit not been for this, he would
have been oppressed by the length andmonotony of the church
services, the bustle of the many visitors, andthe bad qualities
of the other monks. As it was, he not only
bore itall joyfully but found in it solace and support.
'I don't know why it isnecessary to hear the same
prayers several times a day, but I know thatit is
necessary; and knowing this I find joy in them.' His
director toldhim that as material food is necessary for the
maintenance of the lifeof the body, so spiritual food--the church
prayers--is necessary forthe maintenance of the spiritual life. He believed
this, and though thechurch services, for which he had to
get up early in the morning, werea difficulty, they certainly
calmed him and gave him joy. This was theresult of
his consciousness of humility, and the certainty that whateverhe had
to do, being fixed by the starets, was right.

The interest of his life consisted not only in an
ever greater andgreater subjugation of his will, but in the
attainment of all theChristian virtues, which at first seemed to
him easily attainable. Hehad given his whole estate to his
sister and did not regret it, he hadno personal claims,
humility towards his inferiors was not merely easyfor him but
afforded him pleasure. Even victory over the sins of theflesh,
greed and lust, was easily attained. His director had speciallywarned
him against the latter sin, but Kasatsky felt free from
it andwas glad.

One thing only tormented him--the remembrance of his fiancee; and
notmerely the remembrance but the vivid image of what might
have been.Involuntarily he recalled a lady he knew who had
been a favourite of theEmperor's, but had afterwards married and
become an admirable wife andmother. The husband had a high
position, influence and honour, and agood and penitent wife.

In his better hours Kasatsky was not disturbed by such
thoughts, andwhen he recalled them at such times he was
merely glad to feel that thetemptation was past. But there
were moments when all that made up hispresent life suddenly
grew dim before him, moments when, if he did notcease
to believe in the aims he had set himself, he
ceased to see themand could evoke no confidence in them
but was seized by a remembranceof, and--terrible to say--a regret
for, the change of life he had made.

The only thing that saved him in that state of
mind was obedience andwork, and the fact that the whole
day was occupied by prayer. He wentthrough the usual forms
of prayer, he bowed in prayer, he even prayedmore than
usual, but it was lip-service only and his soul was
not in it.This condition would continue for a day, or
sometimes for two days, andwould then pass of itself. But
those days were dreadful. Kasatsky feltthat he was neither in
his own hands nor in God's, but was subjectto something
else. All he could do then was to obey the
starets, torestrain himself, to undertake nothing, and simply to wait.
In generalall this time he lived not by his own
will but by that of the starets,and in this obedience
he found a special tranquillity.

So he lived in his first monastery for seven years.
At the end of thethird year he received the tonsure
and was ordained to the priesthood bythe name of Sergius.
The profession was an important event in his innerlife. He
had previously experienced a great consolation and spiritualexaltation when receiving
communion, and now when he himself officiated,the performance of the
preparation filled him with ecstatic and deepemotion. But subsequently that
feeling became more and more deadened,and once when he was
officiating in a depressed state of mind he feltthat the
influence produced on him by the service would not endure.
Andit did in fact weaken till only the habit remained.

In general in the seventh year of his life in
the monastery Sergius grewweary. He had learnt all there was
to learn and had attained all therewas to attain, there
was nothing more to do and his spiritual drowsinessincreased. During
this time he heard of his mother's death and hissister
Varvara's marriage, but both events were matters of indifferenceto him.
His whole attention and his whole interest were concentrated onhis
inner life.

In the fourth year of his priesthood, during which the
Bishop had beenparticularly kind to him, the starets told him
that he ought not todecline it if he were offered
an appointment to higher duties. Thenmonastic ambition, the very thing
he had found so repulsive in othermonks, arose within him.
He was assigned to a monastery near themetropolis. He wished
to refuse but the starets ordered him to acceptthe appointment.
He did so, and took leave of the starets and
moved tothe other monastery.

The exchange into the metropolitan monastery was an important event
inSergius's life. There he encountered many temptations, and his wholewill-power
was concentrated on meeting them.

In the first monastery, women had not been a temptation
to him, buthere that temptation arose with terrible strength and
even took definiteshape. There was a lady known for her
frivolous behaviour who began toseek his favour. She talked to
him and asked him to visit her. Sergiussternly declined, but
was horrified by the definiteness of his desire.He was so
alarmed that he wrote about it to the starets. And
inaddition, to keep himself in hand, he spoke to a
young novice and,conquering his sense of shame, confessed his weakness
to him, asking himto keep watch on him and not
let him go anywhere except to service andto fulfil his
duties.

Besides this, a great pitfall for Sergius lay in the
fact of his extremeantipathy to his new Abbot, a cunning
worldly man who was making acareer for himself in the
Church. Struggle with himself as he might, hecould not master
that feeling. He was submissive to the Abbot, but inthe
depths of his soul he never ceased to condemn him.
And in the secondyear of his residence at the new
monastery that ill-feeling broke out.

The Vigil service was being performed in the large church
on the eve ofthe feast of the Intercession of the
Blessed Virgin, and there were manyvisitors. The Abbot himself was
conducting the service. Father Sergiuswas standing in his usual place
and praying: that is, he was in thatcondition of struggle
which always occupied him during the service,especially in the large
church when he was not himself conducting theservice. This conflict
was occasioned by his irritation at the presenceof fine folk,
especially ladies. He tried not to see them or to
noticeall that went on: how a soldier conducted them, pushing
thecommon people aside, how the ladies pointed out the monks
to oneanother--especially himself and a monk noted for his good
looks. Hetried as it were to keep his mind in
blinkers, to see nothing butthe light of the candles on
the altar-screen, the icons, and thoseconducting the service. He tried
to hear nothing but the prayersthat were being chanted or
read, to feel nothing but self-oblivion inconsciousness of the fulfilment
of duty--a feeling he always experiencedwhen hearing or reciting in
advance the prayers he had so often heard.

So he stood, crossing and prostrating himself when necessary, andstruggled
with himself, now giving way to cold condemnation and now
toa consciously evoked obliteration of thought and feeling. Then thesacristan,
Father Nicodemus--also a great stumbling-block to Sergiuswho involuntarily reproached him
for flattering and fawning on theAbbot--approached him and, bowing low,
requested his presence behind theholy gates. Father Sergius straightened his
mantle, put on his biretta,and went circumspectly through the crowd.

'Lise, regarde a droite, c'est lui!' he heard a woman's
voice say.

'Ou, ou? Il n'est pas tellement beau.'

He knew that they were speaking of him. He heard
them and, as alwaysat moments of temptation, he repeated the
words, 'Lead us not intotemptation,' and bowing his head and
lowering his eyes went past theambo and in by the
north door, avoiding the canons in their cassocks whowere just
then passing the altar-screen. On entering the sanctuary hebowed, crossing
himself as usual and bending double before the icons.Then, raising
his head but without turning, he glanced out of the
cornerof his eye at the Abbot, whom he saw standing
beside another glitteringfigure.

The Abbot was standing by the wall in his vestments.
Having freed hisshort plump hands from beneath his chasuble he
had folded them overhis fat body and protruding stomach, and
fingering the cords of hisvestments was smilingly saying something to
a military man in theuniform of a general of the
Imperial suite, with its insigniaand shoulder-knots which Father Sergius's experienced
eye at oncerecognized. This general had been the commander of
the regiment in whichSergius had served. He now evidently occupied
an important position, andFather Sergius at once noticed that the
Abbot was aware of this and thathis red face and
bald head beamed with satisfaction and pleasure. Thisvexed and disgusted
Father Sergius, the more so when he heard that theAbbot
had only sent for him to satisfy the general's curiosity
to see aman who had formerly served with him, as
he expressed it.

'Very pleased to see you in your angelic guise,' said
the general,holding out his hand. 'I hope you have not
forgotten an old comrade.'

The whole thing--the Abbot's red, smiling face amid its fringe
of grey,the general's words, his well-cared-for face with its self-satisfiedsmile
and the smell of wine from his breath and of
cigars from hiswhiskers--revolted Father Sergius. He bowed again to the
Abbot and said:

'Your reverence deigned to send for me?'--and stopped, the wholeexpression
of his face and eyes asking why.

'Yes, to meet the General,' replied the Abbot.

'Your reverence, I left the world to save myself from
temptation,' saidFather Sergius, turning pale and with quivering lips. 'Why
do you exposeme to it during prayers and in God's
house?'

'You may go! Go!' said the Abbot, flaring up and
frowning.

Next day Father Sergius asked pardon of the Abbot and
of the brethrenfor his pride, but at the same time,
after a night spent in prayer, hedecided that he must
leave this monastery, and he wrote to the staretsbegging permission
to return to him. He wrote that he felt his
weaknessand incapacity to struggle against temptation without his help andpenitently
confessed his sin of pride. By return of post came
a letterfrom the starets, who wrote that Sergius's pride was
the cause of allthat had happened. The old man pointed
out that his fits of anger weredue to the fact
that in refusing all clerical honours he humiliatedhimself not for
the sake of God but for the sake of his
pride. 'Therenow, am I not a splendid man not to
want anything?' That was why hecould not tolerate the Abbot's
action. 'I have renounced everything forthe glory of God, and
here I am exhibited like a wild beast!' 'Had yourenounced
vanity for God's sake you would have borne it. Worldly
prideis not yet dead in you. I have thought about
you, Sergius my son, andprayed also, and this is what
God has suggested to me. At the Tambovhermitage the anchorite
Hilary, a man of saintly life, has died. He hadlived
there eighteen years. The Tambov Abbot is asking whether there
isnot a brother who would take his place. And here
comes your letter. Goto Father Paissy of the Tambov Monastery.
I will write to him about you,and you must ask
for Hilary's cell. Not that you can replace Hilary, butyou
need solitude to quell your pride. May God bless you!'

Sergius obeyed the starets, showed his letter to the Abbot,
and havingobtained his permission, gave up his cell, handed all
his possessionsover to the monastery, and set out for the
Tambov hermitage.

There the Abbot, an excellent manager of merchant origin, receivedSergius
simply and quietly and placed him in Hilary's cell, at
firstassigning to him a lay brother but afterwards leaving him
alone, atSergius's own request. The cell was a dual cave,
dug into the hillside,and in it Hilary had been buried.
In the back part was Hilary's grave,while in the front
was a niche for sleeping, with a straw mattress, asmall
table, and a shelf with icons and books. Outside the
outer door,which fastened with a hook, was another shelf on
which, once a day, amonk placed food from the monastery.

And so Sergius became a hermit.

III

At Carnival time, in the sixth year of Sergius's life
at the hermitage,a merry company of rich people, men and
women from a neighbouring town,made up a troyka-party, after a
meal of carnival-pancakes and wine. Thecompany consisted of two lawyers,
a wealthy landowner, an officer, andfour ladies. One lady was
the officer's wife, another the wife ofthe landowner, the third
his sister--a young girl--and the fourth adivorcee, beautiful, rich, and
eccentric, who amazed and shocked thetown by her escapades.

The weather was excellent and the snow-covered road smooth as
a floor.They drove some seven miles out of town, and
then stopped and consultedas to whether they should turn back
or drive farther.

'But where does this road lead to?' asked Makovkina, the
beautifuldivorcee.

'To Tambov, eight miles from here,' replied one of the
lawyers, who washaving a flirtation with her.

'And then where?'

'Then on to L----, past the Monastery.'

'Where that Father Sergius lives?'

'Yes.'

'Kasatsky, the handsome hermit?'

'Yes.'

'Mesdames et messieurs, let us drive on and see Kasatsky!
We can stop atTambov and have something to eat.'

'But we shouldn't get home to-night!'

'Never mind, we will stay at Kasatsky's.'

'Well, there is a very good hostelry at the Monastery.
I stayed therewhen I was defending Makhin.'

'No, I shall spend the night at Kasatsky's!'

'Impossible! Even your omnipotence could not accomplish that!'

'Impossible? Will you bet?'

'All right! If you spend the night with him, the
stake shall be whateveryou like.'

'A DISCRETION!'

'But on your side too!'

'Yes, of course. Let us drive on.'

Vodka was handed to the drivers, and the party got
out a box of pies,wine, and sweets for themselves. The
ladies wrapped up in their whitedogskins. The drivers disputed as
to whose troyka should go ahead, andthe youngest, seating himself
sideways with a dashing air, swung hislong knout and shouted
to the horses. The troyka-bells tinkled and thesledge-runners squeaked over
the snow.

The sledge swayed hardly at all. The shaft-horse, with his
tightly boundtail under his decorated breechband, galloped smoothly and briskly;
thesmooth road seemed to run rapidly backwards, while the driver
dashinglyshook the reins. One of the lawyers and the officer
sitting oppositetalked nonsense to Makovkina's neighbour, but Makovkina herself satmotionless
and in thought, tightly wrapped in her fur. 'Always the
sameand always nasty! The same red shiny faces smelling of
wine and cigars!The same talk, the same thoughts, and always
about the same things! Andthey are all satisfied and confident
that it should be so, and willgo on living like
that till they die. But I can't. It bores me.
I wantsomething that would upset it all and turn it
upside down. Supposeit happened to us as to those people--at
Saratov was it?--who kept ondriving and froze to death. .
. . What would our people do? How wouldthey behave?
Basely, for certain. Each for himself. And I too should
actbadly. But I at any rate have beauty. They all
know it. And how aboutthat monk? Is it possible that
he has become indifferent to it? No! Thatis the one
thing they all care for--like that cadet last autumn. What
afool he was!'

'Ivan Nikolaevich!' she said aloud.

'What are your commands?'

'How old is he?'

'Who?'

'Kasatsky.'

'Over forty, I should think.'

'And does he receive all visitors?'

'Yes, everybody, but not always.'

'Cover up my feet. Not like that--how clumsy you are!
No! More,more--like that! But you need not squeeze them!'

So they came to the forest where the cell was.

Makovkina got out of the sledge, and told them to
drive on. They triedto dissuade her, but she grew irritable
and ordered them to go on.

When the sledges had gone she went up the path
in her white dogskincoat. The lawyer got out and stopped
to watch her.

It was Father Sergius's sixth year as a recluse, and
he was nowforty-nine. His life in solitude was hard--not on
account of the fastsand the prayers (they were no hardship
to him) but on account of aninner conflict he had
not at all anticipated. The sources of thatconflict were two:
doubts, and the lust of the flesh. And these twoenemies
always appeared together. It seemed to him that they were
twofoes, but in reality they were one and the same.
As soon as doubt wasgone so was the lustful desire.
But thinking them to be two differentfiends he fought them
separately.

'O my God, my Go