Barbara hesitated long between the open-work stockings and the plain-silk,
but finally decided on the former. Then she vouchsafed a
pleased little smile to her pleasant little image in the
mirror, and stepped through the door into the presence of
her aunt. The aunt was appropriately astonished. This was the
first time Barbara had spread her dainty chiffon wings in
the air of the great north woods. Strangely, daintily incongruous
she looked now against the rough walls of the cabin,
against the dark fringe of the forest beyond the door.

Barbara was a petite little body with petite little airs
of babylike decision. She knew that her greatest attraction lay
in the strange backward poise of her head, bringing her
chin, pointed and adorable, to the tilt of maddening charm.
She was perfectly aware, too, of her very full red
lips, the colour of cherries, but with the satiny finish
of the peach; and she could not remain blind to
the fact that her light hair and her velvet-black eyes
were in rare and delicious contrast. All these things, and
more, Barbara knew because a dozen times a day her
mirror swore them true. That she was elusively, teasingly, judicially,
calmly distracting she knew because, ever since she could remember,
men had told her so with varying degrees of bitter
humour. She accepted the fact, and carried herself in all
circumstances as a queen surrounded by an indefinite number of
rights matured to her selection.

After her plain old backwoods aunt had admired and exclaimed
over the butterfly so unexpectedly developed from the brown tailor-made
chrysalis, Barbara determined to take a walk. She knew that
over through that cool, fascinating forest, only a half-mile away,
dwelt the Adamses. The Adamses, too, were only of the
woods people, but they were human, and chiffon was chiffon,
in the wilderness as in the towns. So Barbara announced
her intention, and stepped into the sunlight.

The parasol completed her sense of happiness. She raised it,
and slanted it over her shoulder, and drew one of
its round tips across her face, playing out to herself
a pretty little comedy as she sauntered deliberately down the
trail between the stumps and tangled blackberry vines of the
clearing. She tilted her chin, and glanced shyly from beneath
the brim of her big hat at the solemn stumps,
and looked just as pretty as she possibly could for
the benefit of the bold, noisy finches. With her light
summer dress and her picture-hat and her open-work stockings and
her absurd little high-heeled, silver-buckled shoes she had somehow regained
the feminine self-confidence which her thick boots and sober brown
woods dress had filched from her. For the first time
in this whimsical visit to a new environment she was
completely happy. Dear little Barbara; she was only eighteen.

Pretty soon the trail entered the great, cool, green forest.
Barbara closed her parasol and carried it under one arm,
while with the same hand she swept her skirt clear
of the ground. She was now a grande marquise in
the Forest of Fontainebleau. Through little round holes in the
undergrowth she could see away down between the trees to
dashes of sunlight and green shadows. Always Barbara conducted herself
as though, in the vista, a cavalier was about to
appear, who would sweep off his plumed hat in a
bow of knightly adoration. She practised the courtesy in return,
sinking on one little high-pointed heel with a downward droop
of her pretty head and an upward cast of her
pretty eyes.

"Oui, c'est un reve, un reve doux d'amour," she hummed,
as the hem of her outspread skirt just swept the
ground.

"Phew!" came a most terrible, dreadful sound from the thicket
close at hand.

Barbara dropped her parasol, and clasped her heart with both
hands, and screamed. From the thicket two slender ears pointed
inquiringly toward her, two wide brown eyes stared frightened into
hers, a delicate nose dilated with terror. "Phew!" snorted the
deer again, and vanished in a series of elastic stiff-legged
springs.

"Oh!" cried Barbara. "You horrid thing! How you frightened me!"

She picked up her parasol, and resumed her journey in
some perturbation of mind, reflecting on the utter rudeness of
the deer. Gradually the trail seemed to become more difficult.
After a time it was obstructed by the top of
a fallen basswood. Barbara looked about her. She was not
on the trail at all.

This was distinctly annoying. Barbara felt a little resentful on
account of it. She gathered her skirts closely about her
ankles, and tried to pick her way through the undergrowth
to the right. The brush was exceedingly difficult to avoid,
and a little patch of briers was worse. Finally an
ugly stub ripped a hole in the chiffon skirt. This
was unbearable. Barbara stamped her foot in vexation. She wanted
to cry; and fully made up her mind to do
so as soon as she should have regained the trail.
In a little while the high beech-ridge over which she
had been travelling ended in a narrow cedar-swamp. Then Barbara
did a foolish thing; she tried to cross the swamp.

At first she proceeded circumspectly, with an eye to the
chiffon. It was torn in a dozen places. Then she
thrust one dear little slipper through the moss into black
water. Three times the stiff straight rods of the tamarack
whipped her smartly across the face. When finally she emerged
on the other side of the hundred feet of that
miserable cedar-swamp, she had ceased to hold up the chiffon
skirt, and was most vexed.

"I think you're just mean!" she cried, pettishly, to the
still forest; and then caught her breath in the silence
of awe.

The forest had become suddenly unfriendly; its kindliness had somehow
vanished. In all directions it looked the same; straight towering
trunks, saplings, undergrowth. It had shut her in with a
wall of green, and hurry in whatever direction she would,
Barbara was always inclosed in apparently the same little cell
of leaves.

Frightened, but with determination, she commenced to walk rapidly in
the direction she believed would lead her out. The bushes
now caught at her unheeded. She tore through briers, popples,
moose-maples alike. The chiffon was sadly marred, the picture-hat stained
and awry, the brave little shoes with their silver buckles
and their pointed high heels were dull with wet. And
suddenly, as the sun shadows began to lift in the
late afternoon, her determined stock of fortitude quite ran out.
She stopped short. All about her were the same straight
towering trunks, the saplings, the undergrowth. Nothing had changed. It
was useless.

She dropped to the ground and gave way to her
wild terror, weeping with the gulping sobs of a frightened
child, but even in extremity dabbing her eyes from time
to time with an absurd tiny handkerchief of drawn-work border.

Poor little Barbara: she was lost!

II

After a while, subtly, she felt that someone was standing
near her. She looked up.

The somebody was a man. He was young. Barbara saw
three things--that he had kindly gray eyes, which just now
were twinkling at her amusedly; that the handkerchief about his
neck was clean; and that the line of his jaw
was unusually clear cut and fine. An observant person would
have noticed further that the young man carried a rifle
and a pack, that he wore a heavily laden belt
about his waist, and moccasins on his feet, that his
blue-flannel shirt, though clean, was faded, that his skin was
as brown as pine-bark. Barbara had no use for such
details. The eye was kindly, the jaw was strong, the
neatness indicated the gentleman. And a strong, kindly gentleman was
just what poor little lost Barbara needed the most. Unconsciously
she tilted her pointed chin forward adorably, and smiled.

"Oh, now it's all right, isn't it?" said she.

"I am glad," he replied, the look of amusement deepening
in his gray eyes. "And a moment ago it was
all wrong. What was the matter?"

"I am lost," answered Barbara, contentedly, as one would say,
"My shoes are a little dusty."

"That's bad," sympathised the other. "Where are you lost from?"

"The Adamses' or the Maxwells', I don't know which. I
started to go from one to the other. Then there
was the deer, and so I got lost."

"I see," he agreed with entire assurance. "And now what
are you going to do?"

"I am not going to do anything. You are to
take me home."

"To the Adamses or the Maxwells?"

"To whichever is nearest."

The young man seemed to be debating. Barbara glanced at
his thoughtful, strong face from under the edge of her
picture-hat, which slyly she had rearranged. She liked his face.
It was so good-humoured.

"It is almost sunset," replied the youth at length. "You
can see the shadows are low. How do you hope
to push through the woods after dark? There are wild
animals--wolves!" he added, maliciously.

Barbara looked up again with sudden alarm.

"But what shall we do?" she cried, less composedly. "You
must take me home!"

"I can try," said he, with the resignation of the
man who can but die.

The tone had its effect.

"What do you advise?" she asked.

"That we camp here," he proposed, calmly, with an air
of finality.

"Oh!" dissented Barbara in alarm. "Never! I am afraid of
the woods! It will be wet and cold! I am
hungry! My feet are just sopping!"

"I will watch all night with my rifle," he told
her. "I will fix you a tent, and will cook
you a supper, and your feet shall not be wet
and cold one moment longer than you will."

"Isn't your home nearer?" she asked.

"My home is where night finds me," he replied.

Barbara meditated. It was going to be dreadful. She knew
she would catch her death of cold. But what could
she do about it?

"You may fix the wet-feet part," she assented at last.

"All right," agreed the young man with alacrity. He unslung
the pack from his back, and removed from the straps
a little axe. "Now, I am not going to be
gone but a moment," he assured her, "and while I
am away, you must take off your shoes and stockings
and put these on." He had been fumbling in his
pack, and now produced a pair of thick woollen lumberman's
socks.

Barbara held one at arm's length in each hand, and
looked at them. Then she looked up at the young
man. Then they both laughed.

While her new protector was away, Barbara not only made
the suggested changes, but she did marvels with the chiffon.
Really, it did not look so bad, considering.

When the young man returned with an armful of hemlock
bark and the slivers of a pine-stump, he found her
sitting bolt upright on a log, her feet tucked under
her. Before the fire he shortly hung the two webs
of gossamer and the two dear little ridiculous little high-heeled
shoes, with their silver buckles. Then in a most business-like
fashion he pitched a diminutive shelter-tent. With equal expedition he
built a second fire between two butternut-logs, produced a frying-pan,
and set about supper.

The twilight was just falling. Somehow the great forest had
lost its air of unfriendliness. The birds were singing in
exactly the same way they used to sing in the
tiny woods of the Picnic Grounds. It was difficult to
believe in the wilderness. The young man moved here and
there with accustomed ease, tending his pot and pan, feeding
the fire. Barbara watched him interestedly. Gradually the conviction gained
on her that he was worth while, and that he
had not once glanced in her direction since he had
begun his preparations. At the moment he was engaged in
turning over sizzling things in the pan.

"If you please," said Barbara, with her small air of
decision, "I am very thirsty."

"You will have to wait until I go to the
spring," replied the man without stirring.

Barbara elevated her small nose in righteous indignation. After a
long time she just peeped in his direction. He was
laughing to himself. She hastily elevated her nose again. After
all it was very lonely in the woods.

"Supper is ready," he announced after a time.

"I do not think I care for any," she replied,
with dignity. She was very tired and hungry and cross,
and her eyes were hot.

"Oh, yes you do," he insisted, carelessly. "Come now, before
it gets cold."

"I tell you I do not care for any," she
returned, haughtily.

For answer he picked her up bodily, carried her ten
feet, and deposited her on another log. Beside her lay
a clean bit of bark containing a broiled deer-steak, toasted
bread, and a cup of tea. She struggled angrily.

"Don't be a fool," the man commanded, sternly, "you need
food. You will eat supper, now!"

Barbara looked up at him with wide eyes. Then she
began to eat the venison. By and by she remarked,
"You are rather nice," and after she had drained the
last drop of tea she even smiled, a trifle humbly.
"Thank you," said she.

It was now dark, and the night had stolen down
through the sentry trees to the very outposts of the
fire. The man arranged the rubber blanket before it. Barbara
sat upon the blanket and leaned her back against the
log. He perched above her, producing a pipe.

"May I?" he asked.

Then, when he had puffed a few moments in quiet
content, he inquired: "How did you come to get lost?"

She told him.

"That was very foolish," he scolded, severely. "Don't you know
any better than to go into the woods without your
bearings? It was idiotic!"

"Thank you," replied Barbara, meekly.

"Well, it was!" he insisted, the bronze on his cheek
deepening a little.

She watched him for some time, while he watched the
flames. She liked to see the light defining boldly the
clean-shaven outline of his jaw; she liked to guess at
the fire of his gray eyes beneath the shadow of
his brow. Not once did he look toward her. Meekly
she told herself that this was just. He was dreaming
of larger things, seeing in the coals pictures of that
romantic, strenuous, mysterious life of which he was a part.
He had no room in the fulness of his existence
for such as she--she, silly little Barbara, whose only charm
was a maddening fashion of pointing outward her adorable chin.
She asked him about it, this life of the winds
of heaven.

"Are you always in the woods?" she inquired.

"Not always," said he.

"But you live in them a great deal?"

"Yes."

"You must have a great many exciting adventures."

"Not many."

"Where did you come from just now?"

"South."

"Where are you going?"

"Northwest."

"What are you going to do there?"

There ensued a slight pause before the stranger's reply. "Walk
through the woods," said he.

"In other words, it's none of my business," retorted Barbara,
a little tartly.

"Ah, but you see it's not entirely mine," he explained.

This offered a new field.

"Then you are on a mission?"

"Yes."

"Is it important?"

"Yes."

"How long is it going to take you?"

"Many years."

"What is your name?"

"Garrett Stanton."

"You are a gentleman, aren't you?"

A flicker of amusement twinkled subtly in the corner of
his eye. "I suppose you mean gently bred, college-educated. Do
you think it's of vast importance?"

Barbara examined him reflectively, her chin in her hand, her
elbow on her knee. She looked at his wavy hair,
his kindly, humorous gray eyes, the straight line of his
fine-cut nose, his firm lips with the quaint upward twist
of the corners, the fine contour of his jaw.

"No-o-o," she agreed, "I don't suppose it does. Only I
know you are a gentleman," she added, with delightful inconsistence.
Stanton bowed gravely to the fire in ironic acknowledgment.

"Why don't you ever look at me?" burst out Barbara,
vexed. "Why do you stare at that horrid fire?"

He turned and looked her full in the face. In
a moment her eyes dropped before his frank scrutiny. She
felt the glow rising across her forehead. When she raised
her head again he was staring calmly at the fire
as before, one hand clasped under his arm, the other
holding the bowl of his brier pipe.

"Now," said he, "I will ask a few questions. Won't
this all-night absence alarm your relatives?"

"Oh, no. I often spend the night at the Adamses'.
They will think I am there."

"Parents are apt to be anxious."

"But mine are not here, you see."

"What is your name?"

"Barbara Lowe."

He fell silent. Barbara was distinctly piqued. He might have
exhibited a more flattering interest.

"Is that all you want to know about me?" she
cried in an injured tone.

"I know all about you now. Listen: Your name is
Barbara Lowe; you come from Detroit, where you are not
yet 'out'; you are an only child; and eighteen or
nineteen years of age."

"Why, who has been telling you about me?" cried Barbara,
astonished.

Stanton smiled. "Nobody," he replied. "Don't you know that we
woodsmen live by our observation? Do you see anything peculiar
about that tree?"

Barbara examined the vegetable in question attentively. "No," she confessed
at last.

"There is an animal in it. Look again."

"I can see nothing," repeated Barbara, after a second scrutiny.

Stanton arose. Seizing a brand from the fire, he rapped
sharply on the trunk. Then slowly what had appeared to
be a portion of the hole began to disintegrate, and
in a moment a drowsy porcupine climbed rattling to a
place of safety.

"That is how I know about you," explained the woodsman,
returning to the fire. "Your remark about staying overnight told
me that you were visiting the Maxwells rather than the
Adamses; I knew the latter must be relatives, because a
girl who wears pretty summer dresses would not visit mere
friends in the wilderness; you would get tired of this
life in a few weeks, and so will not care
to stay longer; you wear your school-pin still, so you
are not yet 'out'; the maker's name in your parasol
caused me to guess you from Detroit."

"And about my being an only child?"

"Well," replied Stanton, "you see, you have a little the
manner of one who has been a trifle----"

"Spoiled!" finished Barbara, with wicked emphasis.

Stanton merely laughed.

"That is not nice," she reproved, with vast dignity.

A cry, inexpressibly mournful, quivered from the woods close at
hand.

"Oh, what is that?" she exclaimed.

"Our friend the porcupine. Don't be frightened."

Down through the trees sighed a little wind. "Whoo! whoo!
whoo!" droned an owl, monotonously. The sparks from the fire
shot up and eddied. A chill was in the air.
Barbara's eyes grew heavier and heavier. She tucked her feet
under her and expanded in the warmth like a fireside
kitten. Then, had she known it, the man was looking
at her, looking at her with a strange, wistful tenderness
in his gray eyes. Dear, harmless, innocent little Barbara, who
had so confidingly trusted in his goodness!

"Come, little girl," he said, softly, at last.

He arose and held out his hand. Awakened from her
abstraction, she looked at him with a faint smile and
eyes from which all coquetry had gone, leaving only the
child.

"Come," he repeated, "time to turn in."

She arose dutifully. The little tent really looked inviting. The
balsam bed proved luxurious, soft as feathers.

"When you are ready," he told her, "let me know.
I want to open the tent-flap for the sake of
warmth."

The soft woollen blanket was very grateful. When the flap
was open, Barbara found that a second fire had been
built with a backing of green logs so arranged as
to reflect the heat directly into her shelter.

She was very sleepy, yet for a long time she
lay awake. The noises of the woods approached mysteriously, and
drew about the little camp their mystic circle. Some of
them were exceedingly terrifying, but Barbara did not mind them,
for he sat there, his strong, graceful figure silhouetted against
the light, smoking his pipe in contemplation. Barbara watched him
for a long time, until finally the firelight blurred, and
the great, solemn shadows stopped dancing across the forest, and
she dozed.

Hours later, as it seemed, some trifling sound awakened her.
The heat still streamed gratefully into the tiny shelter; the
solemn shadows still danced across the forest; the contemplative figure
still stared into the embers, strongly silhouetted by the firelight.
A tender compunction stole into Barbara's tender little heart.

"The poor dear," said she, "he has no place to
sleep. He is guarding me from the dangers of the
forest." Which was quite ridiculous, as any woodsman will know.

Her drowsy eyes watched him wistfully--her mystery, her hero of
romance. Again the fire blurred, again the solemn shadows paused.
A last thought shaped itself in Barbara's consciousness.

"Why, he must be very old," she said to herself.
"He must be twenty-six."

So she fell asleep.

III

Barbara awoke to the sun and the crisp morning air
and a delightful feeling that she had slept well and
had not been uncomfortable at all. The flap of the
tent was discreetly closed. When ready she peeped through the
crack and saw Stanton bending over the fire.

In a moment he straightened and approached the tent. When
within a few feet he paused. Through the hollow of
his hands he cried out the long, musical, morning call
of the woodsman.

"R-o-o-oll out!" he cried. The forest took up the sound
in dying modulations.

For answer Barbara threw aside the tent-flap and stepped into
the sun.

"Good-morning," said she.

"Salut!" he replied. "Come and I will show you the
spring."

"I am sorry I cannot offer you a better variety
for your breakfast. It is only the supper over again,"
he explained, after she had returned, and had perched like
a fluffy bird of paradise on the log. Her cheeks
were very pink from the cold water, and her eyes
were very beautiful from the dregs of dreams, and her
hair very glittering from the kissing of the early sun.
And, wonderful to say, she forgot to thrust out her
pointed chin in the fashion so entirely adorable.

She ate with relish, for the woods-hunger was hers. Stanton
said nothing. The time was pregnant with unspoken things. All
the charming elements of the little episode were crystallising for
them, and instinctively Barbara felt that in a few moments
she would be compelled to read their meaning.

At last the man said, without stirring:

"Well, I suppose we'd better be going."

"I suppose so," she replied.

They sat there some time longer, staring abstractedly at the
kindly green forest; then Stanton abruptly arose and began to
construct his pack. The girl did not move.

"Come," he said at last.

She arose obediently.

"Follow close behind me," he advised.

"Yes," said she.

They set off through the greenery. It opened silently before
them. Barbara looked back. It had already closed silently behind
them, shutting out the episode forever. The little camp had
ceased to exist; the great, ruthless, calm forest had reclaimed
its own. Nothing was left.

Nothing was left but the memory and the dream--yes, and
the Beginning. Barbara knew it must be that--the Beginning. He
would come to see her. She would wear the chiffon,
another chiffon, altogether glorious. She would sit on the highest
root of the old elm, and he would lie at
her feet. Then he could tell her of the enchanted
land, of the life of the winds of heaven. He
would be her knight, to plunge into the wilderness on
the Quest, returning always to her. The picture became at
once inexpressibly dear to her.

Then she noticed that he had stopped, and was looking
at her in deprecation, and was holding aside the screen
of moose-maples. Beyond she could see the familiar clearing, and
the smoke from the Maxwell cabin.

She had slept almost within sight of her own doorstep.

"Please forgive me," he was saying. "I meant it only
as an interesting little adventure. It has been harmless enough,
surely--to you."

His eyes were hungry. Barbara could not find words.

"Good-by," he concluded. "Good-by. You will forgive me in time--or
forget, which is much the same. Believe me, if I
have offended you, my punishment is going to be severe.
Good-by."

"Good-by," said Barbara, a little breathlessly. She had already forgotten
the trick. She could think only that the forest, the
unfriendly forest, was about to recall her son.

"Good-by," he repeated again. He should have gone, but did
not. The situation became strained.

"When are you coming to see me?" she inquired at
length. "I shall be here two weeks yet."

"Never," he replied.

"What do you mean?" she asked after a moment.

"After Painted Rock, the wilderness," he explained, almost bitterly, "the
wilderness and solitude for many years--forever!"

"Don't go until to-morrow," she urged.

"I must."

"Why?"

"Because I must be at Painted Rock by Friday, and
to reach it I must travel fast and long."

"And if you do not?"

"My mission fails," he replied.

They stood there silent. Barbara dug tiny holes with the
tip of her parasol.

"And that is ruin?" she asked softly, without looking up.

"I have struggled hard for many years. The result is
this chance."

"I see," she replied, bending her head lower. "It would
be a very foolish thing for you to stay, then,
wouldn't it?"

He did not reply.

"But you are going to, aren't you?" she went on
in a voice almost inaudible. "You must not go like
that. I ask you to stay."

Again the pause.

"I cannot," he replied.

She looked up. He was standing erect and tall, his
face set in the bronze lines of a resolution, his
gray eyes levelled straight and steady beyond her head. Instantly
her own spirit flashed.

"I think now you'd better go!" said she superbly.

They faced each other for a moment. Then Barbara dropped
her head again, extending her hand.

"You do not know," she whispered, "I have much to
forgive."

He hesitated, then touched the tips of her fingers with
his lips. She did not look up. With a gesture,
which she did not see, he stooped to his pack
and swung into the woods.

Barbara stood motionless. Not a line of her figure stirred.
Only the chiffon parasol dropped suddenly to the ground.