It was a faint cynical murmur of a laugh. Its
expression hardly disturbed the composition of his features.

"I fear, Lady Muriel," he said, "that your profession is
ruined. Our friend - `over the water' - is no
longer concerned about the affairs of England."

The woman fingered at her gloves, turning them back about
the wrists. Her face was anxious and drawn.

"I am rather desperately in need of money," she said.

The cynicism deepened in the man's face.

"Unfortunately," he replied, "a supply of money cannot be influenced
by the intensity of one's necessity for it."

He was a man indefinite in age. His oily black
hair was brushed carefully back. His clothes were excellent, with
a precise detail. Everything about him was conspicuously correct in
the English fashion. But the man was not English. One
could not say from what race he came. Among the
races of Southern Europe he could hardly have been distinguished.
There was a chameleon quality strongly dominant in the creature.

The woman looked up quickly, as in a strong aversion.

"What shall you do?" she said.

"I?"

The man glanced about the room. There was a certain
display within the sweep of his vision. Some rugs of
great value, vases and bronzes; genuine and of extreme age.
He made a careless gesture with his hands.

"I shall explore some ruins in Syria, and perhaps the
aqueduct which the French think carried a water supply to
the Carthage of Hanno. It will be convenient to be
beyond British inquiry for some years to come; and after
all, I am an antiquarian, like Prosper Merimee."

Lady Muriel continued to finger her gloves. They had been
cleaned and the cryptic marks of the shopkeeper were visible
along the inner side of the wrist hem. This was,
to the woman, the first subterfuge of decaying smartness. When
a woman began to send her gloves to the laundry
she was on her way down. Other evidences were not
entirely lacking in the woman's dress, but they were not
patent to the casual eye. Lady Muriel was still, to
the observer, of the gay top current in the London
world.

The woman followed the man's glance about the room.

"You must be rich, Hecklemeir," she said. "Lend me a
hundred pounds."

The man laughed again in his queer chuckle.

"Ah, no, my Lady," he replied, "I do not lend."
Then he added.

"If you have anything of value, bring it to me
. . . . not information from the ministry, and
not war plans; the trade in such commodities is ended."

It was the woman's turn to laugh.

"The shopkeepers in Oxford Street have been before you, Baron
. . . . I've nothing to sell."

Hecklemeir smiled, kneading his pudgy hands.

"It will be hard to borrow," he said. "Money is
very dear to the Britisher just now - right against
his heart . . . . Still. . . .
perhaps one's family could be thumb screwed. . . .
. .An elderly relative with no children would be the
most favorable, I think. Have you got such a relative
concealed somewhere in a nook of London? Think about it.
If you could recall one, he would be like a
buried nut."

The man paused; then he added, with the offensive chuckling
laugh:

"Go to such an one, Lady Muriel. Who shall turn
aside from virtue in distress? Perhaps, in the whole of
London, I alone have the brutality - shall we call
it - to resist that spectacle."

The woman rose. Her face was now flushed and angry.

"I do not know of any form of brutality in
which you do not excel, Hecklemeir," she said. "I have
a notion to, go to Scotland Yard with the whole
story of your secret traffic."

The man continued to smile.

"Alas, my Lady," he replied, "we are coupled together. Scotland
Yard would hardly separate us . . . . you
could scarcely manage to drown me and, keep afloat yourself.
Dismiss the notion; it is from the pit."

There was no virtue in her threat as the woman
knew. Already her mind was on the way that Hecklemeir
had ironically suggested - an elderly relative, with no children,
from whom one might borrow, - she valued the ramifications
of her family, running out to the remote, withered branches
of that noble tree. She appraised the individuals and rejected
them.

Finally her searching paused.

There was her father's brother who had gone in for
science - deciding against the army and the church -
Professor Bramwell Winton, the biologist. He lived somewhere toward Covent
Garden.

She had not thought of him for years. Occasionally his
name appeared in some note issued by the museum, or
a college at Oxford.

For almost four years she had been relieved of this
thought about one's family. The one "over the water" for
whom Hecklemeir had stolen the Scottish toast to designate, had
paid lavishly for what she could find out.

She had been richly, for these four years, in funds.

The habit was established of dipping her hand into the
dish. And now to find the dish empty appalled her.
She could not believe that it was empty. She had
come again, and again to this apartment above the shops
in Regent Street, selected for its safety of ingress; a
modiste and a hairdresser on either side of a narrow
flight of steps.

A carriage could stop here; one could be seen here.

Even on the right, above, at the landing of the
flight of steps Nance Coleen altered evening gowns with the
skill of one altering the plumage of the angels. It
must have cost the one "over the water" a pretty
penny to keep this whole establishment running through four years
of war.

She spoke finally.

"Have you a directory of London, Hecklemeir?"

The man had been watching her closely.

"If it is Scotland Yard, my Lady," he said, "you
will not require a direction. I can give you the
address. It is on the Embankment, near . . .
"

"Don't be a fool, Hecklemeir," she interrupted, and taking the
book from his hands, she whipped through the pages, got
the address she sought, and went out onto the narrow
landing and down the steps into Regent Street:

She took a hansom.

With some concern she examined the contents of her purse.
There was a guinea, a half crown and some shillings
in it - the dust of the bin. And her
profession, as Hecklemeir had said, was ended.

She leaned over, like a man, resting her arms on
the closed doors.

The future looked troublous. Money was the blood current in
the life she knew. It was the vital element. It
must be got.

And thus far she had been lucky.

Even in this necessity Bramwell Winton had emerged, when she
could not think of any one. He would not have
much. These scientific creatures never accumulated money, but he would
have a hundred pounds. He had no wife or children
to scatter the shillings of his income.

True these creatures spent a good deal on the absurd
rubbish of their hobbies. But they got money sometimes, not
by thrift but by a sort of chance. Had not
one of them, Sir Isaac Martin, found the lost mines
from which the ancient civilization of Syria drew its supply
of copper. And Hector Bartlett, little more than a mummy
in the Museum, had gone one fine day into Asia
and dug up the gold plates that had roofed a
temple of the Sun.

He had been shown in the drawing rooms, on his
return, and she had stopped a moment to look him
over - he was a sort of mummy. She was
not hoping to find Bramwell Winton one of these elect.
But he was a hive that had not been plundered.

She reflected, sitting bent forward in the hansom, her face
determined and unchanging. She did not undertake to go forward
beyond the hundred pounds. Something would turn up. She was
lucky . . . others had gone to the tower;
gone before the firing squad for lesser activities in what
Hecklemeir called her profession, but she had floated through .
. . carrying what she gleaned to the paymaster. Was
it skill, or was she a "child of Fortune?

And like every gambler, like every adventurer in a life
of hazard, she determined for the favorite of some immense
Fatality.

It was an old house she came to, built in
the prehistoric age of London, with thick, heavy walls, one
of a row, deadly in its monotony. The row was
only partly tenanted.

She dismissed the hansom and got out.

It was a moment before she found the number. The
houses adjoining on either side were empty, the windows were
shuttered. One might have considered the middle house with the
two, for its step was unscrubbed, and it presented unwashed
windows.

It was a heavy, deep-walled structure like a monument. Even
the street in the vicinity was empty. If the biologist
had been seeking an undisturbed quarter of London, he had,
beyond doubt, found it here.

There was a bridged-over court before the house. Lady Muriel
crossed. She paused before the door. There had been a
bell pull in the wall, but the brass handle was
broken and only the wire remained.

She was uncertain whether one was supposed to pull this
wire, and in the hesitation she took hold of the
door latch. To her surprise the door yielded, and following
the impulse of her extended hand, she went in.

The hall was empty. There was no servant to be
seen. And immediately the domestic arrangement of the biologist were
clear to her. They would be that of one who
had a cleaning woman in on certain days, and so
lived alone. She was not encouraged by this economy, and
yet such a custom in a man like Bramwell Winton
might be habit.

The scientist, in the popular conception, was not concerned with
the luxury of life - they were a rum lot.

But the house was not empty. A smart hat and
stick were in the rack and from what should be
a drawing room, above, there descended faintly the sound of
voices.

It seemed ridiculous to Lady Muriel to go out and
struggle with the broken bell wire. She would go up,
now that she had entered, and announce herself, since, in
any event, it must come to that.

The heavy oak door closed without a sound, as -it
had opened. Lady Muriel went up the stairway. She had
nothing to put down. The only thing she carried was
a purse, and lest it should appear suggestive - as
of one coming with his empty wallet in his hand
- she tucked the gold mesh into the bosom of
her jacket.

The door to the drawing room was partly open, and
as Lady Muriel approached the top of the stair she
heard the voices of two men in an eager colloquy;
a smart English accent from the world that she was
so desperately endeavoring to remain in, and a voice that
paused and was unhurried. But they were both eager, as
I have written, as though commonly impulsed by an unusual
concern.

And now that she was near, Lady Muriel realized that
the conversation was not low or under uttered. The smart
voice was, in fact, loud and incisive. It was the
heavy house that reduced the sounds. In fact, the conversation
was keyed up. The two men were excited about something.

A sentence arrested the woman's advancing feet.

"My word! Bramwell, if some one should go there and
bring the things out, he would make a fortune, and
would be famous. Nobody ever believed these stories."

"There was Le Petit, Sir Godfrey," replied the deliberate voice.
"He declared over his signature that he had seen them."

"But who believed Le Petit," continued the other. "The world
took him to be a French imaginist like Chateaubriand .
. . who the devil, Bramwell, supposed there was any
truth in this old story? But by gad, sir, it's
true! The water color shows it, and if you turn
it over you will see that the map on the
back of it gives the exact location of the spot.
It's all exact work, even the fine lines of the
map have the bearings indicated. The man who made that
water color, and the drawing on the back of it,
had been on the spot.

"Of course, we don't know conclusively who made it. Tony
had gone in from the West coast after big, game,
and he found the thing put up as a sort
of fetish in a devil house. It was one of
the tribes near the Karamajo range. As I told you,
we have only Tony's diary for it. I found the
thing among his effects after he was killed in Flanders.
It's pretty certain Tony did not understand the water color.
There was only this single entry in the diary about
how he found it, and a query in pencil.

"My word! if he had understood the water color, he
would have beaten over every foot of Africa to Lake
Leopold. And it would have been the biggest find of
his time. Gad! what a splash he'd have made! But
he never had any luck, the beggar . . .
stopped a German bullet in the first week out.

"Now, how the devil, Bramwell, do you suppose that water
color got into a native medicine house?"

The reflective voice replied slowly.

"I've thought about the thing, Sir Godfrey. It must have
been the work of the Holland explorer, Maartin. He was
all about in Africa, and he died in there somewhere,
at least he never came out . . . that
was ten years ago. I've looked him up, and I
find that he could do a water color-in fact there's
a collection of his water colors in, the Dutch museum.
They're very fine work, like this one; exquisite, I'd say.
The fellow was born an artist.

"How it got into the hands of a native devil
doctor is not difficult to imagine. The sleeping sickness may
have wiped Maartin out, or the natives may have rushed
his camp some morning, or he may have been mauled
by a beast. Any article of a white man is
medicine stuff you know. When you first showed me the
thing I was puzzled. I knew what it was because
I had read Le Petit's pretension . . . I
can't call it a pretension now; the things are there
whether he saw them or not.

"I think he did not see them. But it is
certain from this water color that some one did; and
Maartin is the only explorer that could have done such
a color. As soon as I thought of Maartin I
knew the thing could have been done by no other."

Lady Muriel had remained motionless on the stair. The door
to the drawing room, before her, was partly open. She
stepped in to the angle of the wall and drew
the door slowly back until it covered this angle in
which she stood.

She was rich in such experiences, for her success had
depended, not a little, on overhearing what was being said.
Through the crack of the door the whole interior of
the room was visible.

Sir Godfrey Halleck, a little dapper man, was sitting across
the table from Bramwell Winton. His elbows were on the
table, and he was looking eagerly at the biologist. Bramwell
Winton had in his hands the thing under discussion.

It seemed to be a piece of cardboard or heavy
paper about six inches in length by, perhaps, four in
width. Lady Muriel could not see what was drawn or
painted on this paper. But the heart in her bosom
quickened. She had chanced on the spoor of something worth
while.

The little dapper man flung his head up.

"Oh, it's certain, Bramwell; it's beyond any question now. My
word! If Tony were only alive, or I twenty years
younger! It's no great undertaking, to go in to the
Karamajo Mountains. One could start from the West Coast, unship
any place and pick up a bunch of natives. The
map on the back of the water color is accurate.
The man who made that knew how to travel in
an unknown country. He must have had a theodolite and
the very best equipment. Anybody could follow that map."

There was a battered old dispatch box on the table
beside Sir Godfrey's arm - one that had seen rough
service.

"Of course," he went on, "we don't know when Tony
picked up this drawing. It was in this box here
with his diary, an automatic pistol and some quinine. The
date of the diary entry is the only clue. That
would indicate that he was near the Karamajo range at
the time, not far from the spot."

He snapped his fingers.

"What damned luck!"

He clinched his hands and brought them down on the
table.

"I'm nearly seventy, Bramwell, but you're ten years under that.
You could go in. No one need know the object
of your expedition. Hector Bartlett didn't tell the whole of
England when he went out to Syria for the gold
plates. A scientist can go anywhere. No one wonders what
he is about. It wouldn't take three months. And the
climate isn't poisonous. I think it's mostly high ground. Tony
didn't complain about it."

The biologist answered without looking up.

"I haven't got the money, Sir Godfrey."

The dapper little man jerked his head as over a
triviality.

"I'll stake you. It wouldn't cost above five hundred pounds."

The biologist sat back in his chair, at the words,
and looked over the table at his guest.

"That's awfully decent of you, Godfrey," he said, "and I'd
go if I saw a way to get your money
to you if anything happened."

"Damn the money!" cried the other.

The biologist smiled.

"Well," he said, "let me think about it. I could
probably fix up some sort of insurance. Lloyd's will bet
nearly any sane man that he won't die for three
months. And besides I should wish to look things up
a little."

Sir Godfrey rose.

"Oh, to be sure," he said, "you want to make
certain about the thing. We might be wrong. I hadn't
an idea what it was until I brought it to
you, and of course Tony hadn't an idea. Make certain
of it by all means."

The biologist extended his long legs under the table. He
indicated the water color in his hand.

"This thing's certain," he said. "I know what this thing
is."

He rapped the water color with the fingers of his
free hand.

"This thing was painted on the spot. Maartin was looking
at this thing when he painted it. You can see
the big shadows underneath. No living creature could have imagined
this or painted it from hearsay. He had to see
it. And he did see it. I wasn't thinking about
this, Godfrey. I was thinking the Dutch government might help
a bit in the hope of finding some trace of
Maartin and I should wish to examine any information they
might have about him."

"Damn the Dutch government!" cried the little man. "And damn
Lloyd's. We will go it on our own hook."

The biologist smiled.

"Let me think about it, a little," he said.

The dapper man flipped a big watch out of his
waistcoat pocket.

"Surely!" he cried, "I must get the next train up.
Have you got a place to lock the stuff? I
had to cut this lid open with a chisel."

He indicated the tin dispatch box.

"Better keep it all. You'll want to run through the
diary, I imagine. Tony's got down the things explorer chaps
are always keen about; temperature, water supply, food and all
that. . . . . Now, I'm off.

See you Thursday afternoon at the United Service Club. Better
lunch with me."

Then he pushed the dispatch box across the table. The
biologist rose and turned back the lid of the box.
The contents remained as Sir Godfrey's dead son had left
them; a limp leather diary, an automatic pistol of some
American make, a few glass tubes of quinine, packed in
cotton wool.

He put the water color on the bottom of the
box and replaced them.

Then he took the dispatch box over to an old
iron safe at the farther end of the room, opened
it, set the box within, locked the door, and, returning,
thrust the key under a pile of journals on the
corner of the table. Then he went out, and down
the stairway with his guest to the door.

They passed within a finger touch of Lady Muriel.

The woman was quick to act. There would be no
borrowing from Bramwell Winton. He would now, with this expedition
on the way, have no penny for another. But here
before her, as though arranged by favor of Fatality, was
something evidently of enormous value that she could cash in
to Hecklemeir.

There was fame and fortune on the bottom of that
dispatch box.

Something that would have been the greatest find of the
age to Tony Halleck . . . something that the
biologist, clearly from his words and manner, valued beyond the
gold plates of Sir Hector Bartlett.

It was a thing that Hecklemeir would buy with money
. . . the very thing which he would be
at this opportune moment interested to purchase. She saw it
in the very first comprehensive glance.

Her luck was holding Fortune was more than favorable, merely.
It exercised itself actively, with evident concern, in her behalf.

Lady Muriel went swiftly into the room. She slipped the
key from under the pile of journals and crossed to
the safe sitting against the wall.

It was an old safe of some antediluvian manufacture and
the lock was worn. The stem of the key was
smooth and it slipped in her gloved hands. She could
not hold it firm enough to turn the lock. Finally
with her bare fingers and with one hand to aid
the other she was able to move the lock and
so open the safe.

She heard the door to the street close below, and
the faint sound of Bramwell Winton's footsteps as though he
went along the hall into the service portion of the
house. She was nervous and hurried, but this reassured her.

The battered dispatch box sat within on the empty bottom
of the a safe.

She lifted the lid; an automatic pistol lay on a
limp leather-backed journal, stained, discolored and worn. Lady Muriel slipped
her hand under these articles and lifted out the thing
she sought.

Even in the pressing haste of her adventure, the woman
could not forbear to look at the thing upon which
these two men set so great a value. She stopped
then a moment on her knees beside the safe, the
prized article in her hands.

A map, evidently drawn with extreme care, was before her.
She glanced at it hastily and turned the thing quickly
over. What she saw amazed and puzzled her. Even in
this moment of tense emotions she was astonished: She saw
a pool of water, - not a pool of water
in the ordinary sense - but a segment of water,
as one would take a certain limited area of the
surface of the sea or a lake or river. It
was amber-colored and as smooth as glass, and on the
surface of this water, as though they floated, were what
appeared to be three, reddish-purple colored flowers, and beneath them
on the bottom of the water were huge indistinct shadows.

The water was not clear to make out the shadows.
But the appearing flowers were delicately painted. They stood out
conspicuously on the glassy surface of the water as though
they were raised above it.

Amazement held the woman longer than she thought, over this
extraordinary thing. Then she thrust it into the bosom of
her jacket, fastening the button securely over it.

The act kept her head down. When she lifted it
Bramwell Winton was standing in the door.

In terror her hand caught up the automatic pistol out
of the tin box. She acted with no clear, no
determined intent. It was a gesture of fear and of
indecision; escape through menace was perhaps the subconscious motive; the
most primitive, the most common motive of all creatures in
the corner. It extends downward from the human mind through
all life.

To spring up, to drag the veil over her face
with her free hand, and to thrust the weapon at
the figure in the doorway was all simultaneous and instinctive
acts in the expression of this primordial impulse of escape
through menace.

Then a thing happened.

There was a sharp report and the figure standing in
the doorway swayed a moment and fell forward into the
room. The unconscious gripping of the woman's fingers had fired
the pistol.

For a moment Lady Muriel stood unmoving, arrested in every
muscle by this accident. But her steady wits - skilled
in her profession - did not wholly desert her. She
saw that the man was dead. There was peril in
that - immense, uncalculated peril, but the prior and immediate
peril, the peril of discovery in the very accomplishment of
theft, was by this act averted.

She stooped over, her eyes fixed on the sprawling body
and with her free hand closed the door of the
safe. Then she crossed the room, put the pistol down
on the floor near the dead man's hand and went
out.

She went swiftly down the stairway and paused a moment
at the door to look out. The street was empty.
She hurried away.

She met no one. A cab in the distance was
appearing. She hailed it as from a cross street and
returned to Regent. It was characteristic of the woman that
her mind dwelt upon the spoil she carried rather than
upon the act she had done.

She puzzled at the water color. How could these things
be flowers?

Bramwell Winton was a biologist; he would not be concerned
with flowers. And Sir Godfrey Halleck and his son Tony,
the big game hunter, were not men to bother themselves
with blossoms. Sir Godfrey, as she now remembered vaguely, had,
like his dead son, been a keen sportsman in his
youth; his country house was full of trophies.

She carried buttoned in the bosom of her jacket something
that these men valued. But, what was it? Well, at
any rate it was something that would mean fame and
fortune to the one who should bring it out of
Africa. That one would now be Hecklemeir, and she should
have her share of the spoil.

Lady Muriel found the drawing-room of her former employer in
some confusion; rugs were rolled up, bronzes were being packed.
But in the disorder of it the proprietor was imperturbable.
He merely elevated his eyebrows at her reappearance. She went
instantly to the point.

"Hecklemeir," she said, "how would you like to have a
definite objective in your explorations?"

The man looked at her keenly.

"What do you mean precisely?" he replied:

"I mean," she continued, "something that would bring one fame
and fortune if one found it." And she added, as
a bit of lure, "You remember the gold plates Hector
Bartlett dug up in Syria?"

He came over closer to her; his little eyes narrowed.

"What have you got?" he said.

His facetious manner - a that vulgar persons imagine to
be distinguished - was gone out of him. He was
direct and simple.

She replied with no attempt at subterfuge.

"I've got a map of a route to some sort
of treasure - I don't know what - It's in
the Karamajo Mountains in the French Congo; a map to
it and a water color of the thing."

Hecklemeir did not ask how Lady Muriel came by the
thing she claimed; his profession always avoided such detail. But
he knew that she had gone to Bramwell Winton; and
what she had must have come from some scientific source.
The mention of Hector Bartlett was not without its virtue.

Lady Muriel marked the man's changed manner, and pushed her
trade.

"I want a check for a hundred pounds and a
third of the thing when you bring it out."

Hecklemeir stood for a moment with the tips of his
fingers pressed against his lips; then replied.

"If you have anything like the thing you describe, I'll
give you a hundred pounds . . . let me
see it."

She took the water color out of the bosom of
her jacket and gave it to him.

He carried it over to the window and studied it
a moment. Then he turned with a sneering oath.

"The devil take your treasure," he said, "these things are
water-elephants. I don't care a farthing if they stand on
the bottom of every lake in Africa!"

And he flung the water color toward her. Mechanically the
stunned woman picked it up and smoothed it out in
her fingers.

With the key to the picture she saw it clearly,
the shadowy bodies of the beasts and the tips of
their trunks distended on the surface like a purple flower.
And vaguely, as though it were a memory from a
distant life, she recalled hearing the French Ambassador and Baron
Rudd discussing the report of an explorer who pretended to
have seen these supposed fabulous elephants come out of an
African forest and go down under the waters of Lake
Leopold.

She stood there a moment, breaking the thing into pieces
with her bare hands. Then she went out. At the
door on the landing she very nearly stepped against a
little cockney.

"My Lidy," he whined, "I was bringing your, gloves; you
dropped them on your way up."

She took them mechanically and began to draw them on
. . . the cryptic sign of the cleaner on
the wrist hem was now to her indicatory of her
submerged estate. The little cockney hung about a moment as
for a gratuity delayed, then he disappeared down the stair
before her.

She went slowly down, fitting the gloves to her fingers.

Midway of the flight she paused. The voice of the
little cockney, but without the accent, speaking to a Bobby
standing beside the entrance reached her.

"It was Sir Henry Marquis who set the Yard to
register all laundry marks in London. Great C. I. D.
Chief, Sir Henry!"

And Lady Muriel remembered that she had removed these gloves
in order to turn the slipping key in Bramwell Winton's
safe lock.