"MY DEAR Young Friend," said Father Time, as he laid
his hand gently upon my shoulder, "you are entirely wrong."

Then I looked up over my shoulder from the table
at which I was sitting and I saw him.

But I had known, or felt, for at least the
last half-hour that he as standing somewhere near me.

You have had, I do not doubt, good reader, more
than once that strange uncanny feeling that there is some
one unseen standing beside you, in a darkened room, let
us say, with a dying fire, when the night has
grown late, and the October wind sounds low outside, and
when, through the thin curtain that we call Reality, the
Unseen World starts for a moment clear upon our dreaming
sense.

You have had it? Yes, I know you have. Never
mind telling me about it. Stop. I don't want to
hear about that strange presentiment you had the night your
Aunt Eliza broke her leg. Don't let's bother with your
experience. I want to tell mine.

"You are quite mistaken, my dear young friend," repeated Father
Time, "quite wrong."

"Young friend?" I said, my mind, as one's mind is
apt to in such a case, running to an unimportant
detail. "Why do you call me young?"

"Your pardon," he answered gently — he had a gentle
way with him, had Father Time. "The fault is in
my failing eyes. I took you at first sight for
something under a hundred."

"Under a hundred?" I expostulated. "Well, I should think so!"

"Your pardon again," said Time, "the fault is in my
failing memory. I forgot. You seldom pass that nowadays, do
you? Your life is very short of late."

I heard him breathe a wistful hollow sigh. Very ancient
and dim he seemed as he stood beside me. But
I did not turn to look upon him. I had
no need to. I knew his form, in the inner
and clearer sight of things, as well as every human
being knows by innate instinct, the Unseen face and form
of Father Time.

I could hear him murmuring beside me, "Short — short,
your life is short"; till the sound of it seemed
to mingle with the measured ticking of a clock somewhere
in the silent house.

Then I remembered what he had said.

"How do you know that I am wrong?" I asked.
"And how can you tell what I was thinking?"

"You, said it out loud," answered Father Time. "But it
wouldn't have mattered, anyway. You said that Christmas was all
played out and done with."

"Yes," I admitted, "that's what I said."

"And what makes you think that?" he questioned, stooping, so
it seemed to me, still further over my shoulder.

"Why," I answered, "the trouble is this. I've been sitting
here for hours, sitting till goodness only knows how far
into the night, trying to think out something to write
for a Christmas story. And it won't go. It can't
be done — not in these awful days."

"A Christmas Story?"

"Yes. You see, Father Time," I explained, glad with a
foolish little vanity of my trade to be able to
tell him something that I thought enlightening, "all the Christmas
stuff — stories and jokes and pictures — is all
done, you know, in October."

I thought it would have surprised him, but I was
mistaken.

"Dear me," he said, "not till October! What a rush!
How well I remember in Ancient Egypt — as I
think you call it — seeing them getting out their
Christmas things, all cut in hieroglyphics, always two or three
years ahead."

"Two or three years!" I exclaimed.

"Pooh," said Time, "that was nothing. Why in Babylon they
used to get their Christmas jokes ready — all baked
in clay — a whole Solar eclipse ahead of Christmas.
They said, I think, that the public preferred them so."

"Egypt?" I said. "Babylon? But surely, Father Time, there was
no Christmas in those days. I thought ——"

"My dear boy," he interrupted gravely, "don't you know that
there has always been Christmas?"

I was silent. Father Time had moved across the room
and stood beside the fireplace, leaning on the mantelpiece. The
little wreaths of smoke from the fading fire seemed to
mingle with his shadowy outline.

"Well," he said presently, "what is it that is wrong
with Christmas?"

"Why," I answered, "all the romance, the joy, the beauty
of it has gone, crushed and killed by the greed
of commerce and the horrors of war. I am not,
as you thought I was, a hundred years old, but
I can conjure up, as anybody can, a picture of
Christmas in the good old days of a hundred years
ago: the quaint old-fashioned houses, standing deep among the evergreens,
with the light twinkling from the windows on the snow;
the warmth and comfort within; the great fire roaring on
the hearth; the merry guests grouped about its blaze and
the little children with their eyes dancing in the Christmas
fire- light, waiting for Father Christmas in his fine mummery
of red and white and cotton wool to hand the
presents from the yule-tide tree. I can see it," I
added, "as if it were yesterday."

"It was but yesterday," said Father Time, and his voice
seemed to soften with the memory of bygone years. "I
remember it well."

"Ah," I continued, "that was Christmas indeed. Give me back
such days as those, with the old good cheer, the
old stage coaches and the gabled inns and the warm
red wine, the snapdragon and the Christmas-tree, and I'll believe
again in Christmas, yes, in Father Christmas himself."

"Believe in him?" said Time quietly. "You may well do
that. He happens to be standing outside in the street
at this moment."

"Outside?" I exclaimed. "Why don't he come in?"

"He's afraid to," said Father Time. "He's frightened and he
daren't come in unless you ask him. May I call
him in?"

I signified assent, and Father Time went to the window
for a moment and beckoned into the darkened street. Then
I heard footsteps, clumsy and hesitant they seemed, upon the
stairs. And in a moment a figure stood framed in
the doorway — the figure of Father Christmas. He stood
shuffling his feet, a timid, apologetic look upon his face.

How changed he was!

I had known in my mind's eye, from childhood up,
the face and form of Father Christmas as well as
that of Old Time himself. Everybody knows, or once knew
him — a jolly little rounded man, with a great
muffler wound about him, a packet of toys upon his
back and with such merry, twinkling eyes and rosy cheeks
as are only given by the touch of the driving
snow and the rude fun of the North Wind. Why,
there was once a time, not yet so long ago,
when the very sound of his sleigh-bells sent the blood
running warm to the heart.

But now how changed.

All draggled with the mud and rain he stood, as
if no house had sheltered him these three years past.
His old red Jersey was tattered in a dozen places,
his muffler frayed and ravelled.

The bundle of toys that he dragged with him in
a net seemed wet and worn till the cardboard boxes
gaped asunder. There were boxes among them, I vow, that
he must have been carrying these three past years.

But most of all I noted the change that had
come over the face of Father Christmas. The old brave
look of cheery confidence was gone. The smile that had
beamed responsive to the laughing eyes of countless children around
unnumbered Christmas- trees was there no more. And in the
place of it there showed a look of timid apology,
of apprehensiveness, as of one who has asked in vain
the warmth and shelter of a human home — such
a look as the harsh cruelty of this world has
stamped upon the faces of its outcasts.

So stood Father Christmas shuffling upon the threshold, fumbling his
poor tattered hat in his hand.

"Shall I come in?" he said, his eyes appealingly on
Father Time.

"Come," said Time. He turned to speak to me, "Your
room is dark. Turn up the lights. He's used to
light, bright light and plenty of it. The dark has
frightened him these three years past."

I turned up the lights and the bright glare revealed
all the more cruelly the tattered figure before us.

Father Christmas advanced a timid step across the floor. Then
he paused, as if in sudden fear.

"Is this floor mined?" he said.

"No, no," said Time soothingly. And to me he added
in a murmured whisper, "He's afraid. He was blown up
in a mine in No Man's Land between the trenches
at Christmas-time in 1914. It broke his nerve."

"May I put my toys on that machine gun?" asked
Father Christmas timidly. "It will help to keep them dry."

"It is not a machine gun," said Time gently. "See,
it is only a pile of books upon the sofa."
And to me he whispered, "They turned a machine gun
on him in the streets of Warsaw. He thinks he
sees them everywhere since then."

"It's all right, Father Christmas," I said, speaking as cheerily
as I could, while I rose and stirred the fire
into a blaze.

"There are no machine guns here and there are no
mines. This is but the house of a poor writer."

"Ah," said Father Christmas, lowering his tattered hat still further
and attempting something of a humble bow, "a writer? Are
you Hans Andersen, perhaps?"

"Not quite," I answered.

"But a great writer, I do not doubt," said the
old man, with a humble courtesy that he had learned,
it well may be, centuries ago in the yule-tide season
of his northern home. "The world owes much to its
great books. I carry some of the greatest with me
always. I have them here ——"

He began fumbling among the limp and tattered packages that
he carried. "Look! The House that Jack Built — a
marvellous, deep thing, sir — and this, The Babes in
the Wood. Will you take it, sir? A poor present,
but a present still — not so long ago I
gave them in thousands every Christmas-time. None seem to want
them now."

He looked appealingly towards Father Time, as the weak may
look towards the strong, for help and guidance.

"None want them now," he repeated, and I could see
the tears start in his eyes. "Why is it so?
Has the world forgotten its sympathy with the lost children
wandering in the wood?"

"All the world," I heard Time murmur with a sigh,
"is wandering in the wood." But out loud he spoke
to Father Christmas in cheery admonition, "Tut, tut, good Christmas,"
he said, "you must cheer up. Here, sit in this
chair the biggest one; so — beside the fire. Let
us stir it to a blaze; more wood, that's better.
And listen, good old Friend, to the wind outside —
almost a Christmas wind, is it not? Merry and boisterous
enough, for all the evil times it stirs among."

Old Christmas seated himself beside the fire, his hands outstretched
towards the flames. Something of his old-time cheeriness seemed to
flicker across his features as he warmed himself at the
blaze.

"That's better," he murmured. "I was cold, sir, cold, chilled
to the bone. Of old I never felt it so;
no matter what the wind, the world seemed warm about
me. Why is it not so now?"

"You see," said Time, speaking low in a whisper for
my ear alone, "how sunk and broken he is? Will
you not help?"

"Gladly," I answered, "if I can."

"All can," said Father Time, "every one of us."

Meantime Christmas had turned towards me a questioning eye, in
which, however, there seemed to revive some little gleam of
merriment.

"Have you, perhaps," he asked half timidly, "schnapps?"

"Schnapps?" I repeated.

"Ay, schnapps. A glass of it to drink your health
might warm my heart again, I think."

"Ah," I said, "something to drink?"

"His one failing," whispered Time, "if it is one. Forgive
it him. He was used to it for centuries. Give
it him if you have it."

"I keep a little in the house," I said reluctantly
perhaps, "in case of illness."

"Tut, tut," said Father Time, as something as near as
could be to a smile passed over his shadowy face.
"In case of illness! They used to say that in
ancient Babylon. Here, let me pour it for him. Drink,
Father Christmas, drink! "

Marvellous it was to see the old man smack his
lips as he drank his glass of liquor neat after
the fashion of old Norway.

Marvellous, too, to see the way in which, with the
warmth of the fire and the generous glow of the
spirits, his face changed and brightened till the old-time cheerfulness
beamed again upon it. He looked about him, as it
were, with a new and growing interest.

"A pleasant room," he said. "And what better, sir, than
the wind without and a brave fire within!"

Then his eye fell upon the mantelpiece, where lay among
the litter of books and pipes a little toy horse.

"Ah," said Father Christmas almost gayly, "children in the house!"

"One," I answered, "the sweetest boy in all the world."

"I'll be bound he is!" said Father Christmas and he
broke now into a merry laugh that did one's heart
good to hear. "They all are! Lord bless me! The
number that I have seen, and each and every one
— and quite right too — the sweetest child in
all the world. And how old, do you say? Two
and a half all but two months except a week?
The very sweetest age of all, I'll bet you say,
eh, what? They all do!"

And the old man broke again into such a jolly
chuckling of laughter that his snow-white locks shook upon his
head.

"But stop a bit," he added. "This horse is broken.
Tut, tut, a hind leg nearly off. This won't do!"

He had the toy in his lap in a moment,
mending it. It was wonderful to see, for all his
age, how deft his fingers were.

"Time," he said, and it was amusing to note that
his voice had assumed almost an authoritative tone, "reach me
that piece of string. That's right. Here, hold your finger
across the knot. There! Now, then, a bit of beeswax.
What? No beeswax? Tut, tut, how ill-supplied your houses are
to-day. How can you mend toys, sir, without beeswax? Still,
it will stand up now."

I tried to murmur by best thanks.

But Father Christmas waved my gratitude aside.

"Nonsense," he said, "that's nothing. That's my life. Perhaps the
little boy would like a book too. I have them
here in the packet. Here, sir, Jack and the Bean
Stalk, most profound thing. I read it to myself often
still. How damp it is! Pray, sir, will you let
me dry my books before your fire?"

"Only too willingly," I said. "How wet and torn they
are!"

Father Christmas had risen from his chair and was fumbling
among his tattered packages, taking from them his children's books,
all limp and draggled from the rain and wind.

"All wet and torn!" he murmured, and his voice sank
again into sadness. "I have carried them these three years
past. Look! These were for little children in Belgium and
in Serbia, Can I get them to them, think you?"

Time gently shook his head.

"But presently, perhaps," said Father Christmas, "if I dry and
mend them. Look, some of them were inscribed already! This
one, see you, was written 'With father's love.' Why has
it never come to him? Is it rain or tears
upon the page?"

He stood bowed over his little books, his hands trembling
as he turned the pages. Then he looked up, the
old fear upon his face again.

"That sound!" he said. "Listen I It is guns —
I hear them."

"No" no," I said, "it is nothing. Only a car
passing in the street below."

"Listen," he said. "Hear that again — voices crying!"

"No, no," I answered, "not voices, only the night wind
among the trees."

"My children's voices!" he exclaimed. "I hear them everywhere —
they come to me in every wind — and I
see them as I wander in the night and storm
— my children — torn and dying in the trenches
— beaten into the ground — I hear them crying
from the hospitals — each one to me, still as
I knew him once, a little child. Time, Time," he
cried, reaching out his arms in appeal, "give me back
my children!"

"They do not die in vain," Time murmured gently.

But Christmas only moaned in answer:

"Give me back my children! "

Then he sank down upon his pile of books and
toys, his head buried in his arms.

"You see," said Time, "his heart is breaking, and will
you not help him if you can?"

"Only too gladly," I replied. "But what is there to
do?"

"This," said Father Time, "listen."

He stood before me grave and solemn, a shadowy figure
but half seen though he was close beside me. The
fire-light had died down, and through the curtained windows there
came already the first dim brightening of dawn.

"The world that once you knew," said Father Time, "seems
broken and destroyed about you. You must not let them
know — the children. The cruelty and the horror and
the hate that racks the world to-day — keep it
from them. Some day he will know" — here Time
pointed to the prostrate form of Father Christmas — "that
his children, that once were, have not died in vain:
that from their sacrifice shall come a nobler, better world
for all to live in, a world where countless happy
children shall hold bright their memory for ever. But for
the children of To-day, save and spare them all you
can from the evil hate and horror of the war.
Later they will know and understand. Not yet. Give them.
back their Merry Christmas and its kind thoughts, and its
Christmas charity, till later on there shall be with it
again Peace upon Earth Good Will towards Men."

His voice ceased. It seemed to vanish, as it were,
in the sighing of the wind.

I looked up. Father Time and Christmas had vanished from
the room. The fire was low and the day was
breaking visibly outside.

"Let us begin," I murmured. "I will mend this broken
horse."