MISS BESSIE VAUX, of Baltimore, paid a visit to her
aunt, the wife of the Commandant at old Fort Starbuck,
Montana. She had at her small feet at the garrison
and some two dozen young ranch-own-ers, the flower of the
younger sons of the best society of New York, Boston,
and Philadelphia. Thirty-seven notches in the long handle of her
parasol told the story of her three months' stay. The
thirty-seventh was final. She accepted a measly Second-Lieutenant, and left
all the bach-elors for thirty miles around the Fort to
mourn her and to curse the United States Army. This
is the proem.

Mr. John Winfield, proprietor of the Wiufield Eaneh, sat a-straddle
a chair in front of the fire in his big
living room, and tugged at his hand-some black beard as
he discussed the situation with his foreman, who was also
his confidant, his best friend and his old college mate.
Mr. Eichard Cutter stood with his back to the fire,
twirled a very blonde moustache and smoked cigarettes continually while
he ministered to his suffering friend, who was sore wounded
in his vanity, having been notch No. 36 on Miss
Vaux's parasol. Dick had been notch No. 1; but Dick
was used to that sort of thing.

"By thunder," said Mr. Winfield, 'I'm going to get married
this year, if I have to marry a widow with
six children. And I guess I'll have to. I've been
ten years in this girlless wilder-ness, and I never did
know any girls to speak of, at home. Now you,
you always everlastingly knew girls. What's that place you lived
at in New York State — ^where there were so
many girls?"

"Tusculum," replied Mr. Cutter, in a tone of complacent reminiscence.
"Nice old town, plas-tered so thick with mortgages that you
can't grow flowers in the front yard. All the fellows
strike for New York as soon as they begin to
shave. The crop of girls remains, and they wither on
the stem. Why, one Winter they had a humpbacked man
for their sole society star in the male line. Nice
girls, too. Old families. Pretty, lots of them. Good form,
too, for pro-vincials."

"Gad!" said Jack Winfield. "I'd like to live in Tusculum
for a year or so."

"No, you wouldn't. It's powerful dull. But the girls were
nice. Now, there were the Nine Cent-Girls."

"The Nine-cent Girls?"

"No, the Nine Cent-Girls. Catch the differ-ence? They were the
daughters of old Bailey, the civil engineer. Nine of 'em,
ranging from twenty-two, when I was there — that's ten
years ago — down to — oh, I don't know
— a kid in a pinafore. All looked jnst alike,
barring age, and every one had the face of the
Indian lady on the little red cent. Do you remember
the Indian lady on the little red cent?"

"Hold on," suggested Jack, rising; "I've got one. I've had
it ever since I came." He un-locked his desk, rummaged
about in its depths, and produced a specimen of the
neatest and most artistic coin that the United States Government
has ever struck.

"That's it," said Dick, holding the coppery disk in his
palm. "It would do for a picture of any one
of 'em — only the Bailey girls didn't wear feathers
in their hair. But there they were, nine of 'em,
nice girls, every way, and the whole lot named out
of the classics. Old Bailey was strong on the classics.
His great-grand-father named Tusculum, and Bailey's own name was M.
Cicero Bailey. So he called all his girls by heathen
names, and had a row with the parson every christening.
Let me see — there was Eu-phrosyne, and Clelia, and
Lydia, and Flora and Aurora — those were the twins
— I was sweet on one of the twins —
and Una — and, oh, I can't remember them all.
But they were mighty nice girls."

"Probably all married by this time," Jack groaned. "Let me
look at that cent." He held it in the light
of the fire, and gazed thoughtfully upon it.

"Not a one," Dick assured him. "I met a chap
from Tusculum last time I was in Butte City, and
I asked him. He said there 'd been only one
wedding in Tusculum in three years, and then the local
paper had a wire into the church and got out
extras."

"What sort of girls were they?" "Winfield asked, still regarding
the coin.

"Just about like that, for looks. Let me see it
again." Dick examined the cent critically, and slipped it into
his pocket, in an absent-minded way. "Just about like that.
First rate girls. Old man was as poor as a
church mouse ; but you would never have known it,
the way that house was run. Bright girls, too —
at least, my twin was. I've forgotten which twin it
was; but she was too bright for me."

"And how old did you say they were? How old
was the youngest?"

"Oh, I don't know," replied Dick, with a bachelor's vagueness
on the question of a child's age, "five — six
— seven, may be. Ten years ago, you know."

"Just coming in to grass," observed Mr. Win-field, meditatively.

Two months after the evening on which this conversation took
place, Mr. Eichard Cutter walked up one of the quietest
and most emi-nently respectable of the streets of Tusculum.

Mr. Cutter was nervous. He was, for the second time,
making up his mind to attempt a difficult and delicate
task. He had made up his mind to it, or
had had it made up for him; but now he
felt himself obliged to go over the whole process in
his memory, in order to assure him-self that the mind
was really made up.

The suggestion had come from Winfield. He remembered with what
a dazed incomprehension he had heard his chum's proposition to
induce Mr. Bailey and all his family to migrate to
Mon-tana and settle at Starbuck.

"We'll give the old man all the surveying he wants.
And he can have Ashford's place on the big dam
when Ashford goes East in August. iWhy, the finger of
Providence is pointing Bailey straight for Starbuck."

With a clearer remembrance of Eastern con-ventionalities than Mr. Winfield,
Dick Cutter had suggested various obstacles in the way of
this apparently simple scheme. But Winfield would hear of no
opposition, and he joiaed with him eight other young ranchmen,
who entered into the idea with wild Western enthusiasm and
an Arcadian simplicity that could see no chance of failure.
These energetic youths subscribed a generous fund to defray the
expenses of Mr. Cutter as a missionary to Tusculum; and
Mr. Cutter had found himself committed to the ven-ture before
he knew it.

Now, what had seemed quite feasible in Star-buck's wilds wore
a different face in prim and proper Tusculum. It dawned
on Mr. Cutter that he was about to make a
most radical and some-what impudent proposition to a conservative old
gentleman. The atmosphere of Tusculum weighed heavy on his spirits,
which were light and careless enough in his adopted home
in Montana.

Therefore Mr. Cutter found his voice very uncertain as he
introduced himself to the young lady who opened, at his
ring, the front door of one of the most respectable
houses in that re-spectable street of Tusculum.

"Good morning," he said, wondering which one of the Nine
Cent-Girls he saw before him; and then, noting a few
threads of gray in her hair, he ventured:

"It's Miss — Miss Euphrosyne, isn't it? You don't remember
me — Mr. Cutter, Dick Cutter? Used to live on
Ovid Street. Can I see your father?"

"My father?" repeated Miss Euphrosyne, looking a little frightened.

"Yes — I just want — "

"Why, Mr. Cutter — I do remember you now —
didn't you know that Papa died nine years ago —
the year after you left Tusculum?"

Dick Cutter leaned against the door-jamb and stared speechlessly at
Euphrosyne. He noted vaguely that she looked much the same
as Avhen he had last seen her, except that she
looked tired and just a shade sad. When he was
able to think, he said that he begged her pardon.
Then she smiled, faintly.

"We couldn't expect you to know," she said, simply. "Won't
you come in?"

"N-N-No," stuttered Dick. "I-I-I'll call later — this evening, if
you don't mind. Ah — ah — good day." And
he fled to his hotel, to pull himself together, leaving
Miss Euphrosyne smiling.

He sat alone in his room all the afternoon, pondering
over the shipwreck of his scheme. What should he tell
the boys? What would the boys say? Why had he
not thought to write before he came? Why on earth
had Bailey taken it into his head to die ?

After supper, he resolved to call as he had promised.
Mrs. Bailey, he knew, had died a year after the
appearance of her ninth daughter. But, he thought, with reviving
hope, there might be a male head to the family
— an uncle, per-haps.

The door was opened by Clytie, the youngest of the
nine. She ushered him at once into a bright little
parlor, himg around with dainty things in artistic needlework and
decorative painting. A big lamp glowed on a centre-table, and
around it sat seven of the sisters, each one engaged
in some sort of work, sewing, embroid-ering or designing. Nearest
the lamp sat Eu-phrosyne, reading Macaulay aloud. She stopped as
he entered, and welcomed him in a half -timid but
wholly friendly fashion.

Dick sat down, very much embarrassed, in spite of the
greeting. It was many years since he had talked to
nine ladies at once. And, in truth, a much less
embarrassed man might have found himself more or less troubled
to carry on a conversation with nine young women who
looked exactly like each other, except for the delicate distinctions
of age which a masculine stranger might well be afraid
to note. Dick looked from one to the other of
the placid classic faces, and could not help having an
uneasy idea that each new girl that he addressed was
only the last one who had slipped around the table
and made herself look a year or two older or
younger.

But after a while the pleasant, genial, social atmosphere of
the room, sweet with a delicate, winning virginity, thawed out
his awkward re-serve, and Dick began to talk of the
West and Western life until the nine pairs of blue
eyes, stretched to their widest, fixed upon him as a
common focus. It was eleven when he left, with many
apologies for his long call. He found the night and
the street uncommonly dark, empty and depressing.

"Just the outfit!" he observed to himself. "And old Bailey
dead and the whole scheme busted."

For he had learned that the Nine Cent-Girls had not
a relative in the world. Under these circumstances, it was
clearly his duty to take the morning train for the
West. And yet, the next evening, he presented himself, shamefaced
and apologetic, at the Bailey's door.

He thought that he wanted to make some sort of
explanation to Miss Enphrosyne. But what explanation could he make
? There was no earth-ly reason for his appearance in
Tusculum. He talked of the West until eleven o'clock, and
then he took a hesitating leave.

The next day he made a weak pretense of casually
passing by when he knew that Miss Euphrosyne was working
in the garden; but he found it no easier to
explain across the front fence. The explanation never would have
been made if it had not been for Miss Euphrosyne.
A curious nervousness had come over her, too, and suddenly
she spoke out.

"Mr. Cutter — excuse me — ^but what has brought
you here? I mean is it anything that concerns us
— or — or — ^Papa's affairs! I thought everything
was settled — I had hoped — "

There was nothing for it now but to tell the
whole story, and Dick told it.

"I suppose you'll think we're a pack of bar-barians," he
said, when he had come to the end, "and, of
course, it's all impracticable now."

But Miss Euphrosyne did not seem to be of-fended —
only thoughtful.

"Can you call here to-morrow at this time, Mr. Cutter?"
she inquired.

Miss Euphrosyne blushed faintly when Dick presented himself to hear
judgment pronounced.

"I suppose you will think it strange," she said, "but
if your plan is feasible, I should wish to carry
it out. Frankly, I do want to see the girls
married. Clelia and Lydia and I are past the time
when women think about such things — but Clytie —
and the rest. And, you know, I can remember how
Papa and Mama lived together, and sometimes it seems cruelly
hard that those dear girls should lose all that happiness
— I'm sure it's the best happiness in the world.
And it can never be, Toere. Now, if I could
get occu-pation — ^you know that I'm teaching school, I
suppose — and if the rest of the girls could
keep up their work for the New York people —
^why — don't you know, if I didn't tell— ^if
I put it on business grounds, you know — I
think they would feel that it was best, after all,
to leave Tuscu-lum ..."

Her voice was choked when she recommenced.

"It seems awful for me to talk to you in
this cold-blooded way about such a thing; but — ^what
can we do, Mr. Cutter? You don't know how poor
we are. There's nothing for my little Clytie to do
but to be a dressmaker — and you know what
that means, in Tusculum. Oh, do you think I could
teach school out in Star — Star — Starbuckle?"

Miss Euphrosyne was crying.

Dick's census of possible pupils in the neigh-borhood of Starbuck
satisfied Miss Euphrosyne. It troubled Dick's conscience a bit, as
he walked back to the hotel. "But they'll all be
married off before she finds it out, so I guess
it's all right," he reflected.

The next week Dick went to New York, This was
in pursuance of an idea which he had con-fided to
Winfield, on the eve of his forth-setting.

"Why," Winfield had said to him, "you are clean left
out of this deal, aren't you?"

"Of course I am," said Dick. "How am I going
to marry a poor girl on a hundred dollars a
month?"

"I might set you up for yourself — " began
his employer.

"Hold on!" broke in Dick Cutter, with em-phasis. "You wouldn't
talk that way if you'd ever been hungry yourself. I
'most starved that last time I tried for myself; and
I'd starve next trip, sure. You've been a good friend
to me. Jack Winfield. Don't you make a damn fool
of yourself and spoil it all."

"But," he added, after a pause, "I have a little
racket of my own. There's a widow in New York
who smiled on yours affectionately once, ere she wed Mammon.
I'm going just to see if she feels inclined to
divide the late la-mented 's pile with a blonde husband."

So, the business at Tusculum being determined, and preparations for
the hegira well under way, Dick went to look after
his own speculation.

He reached New York on Tuesday morning, and called on
the lady of his hopes that after-noon. She was out.
He wrote to her in the evening, asking when he
might see her. On Thursday her wedding-cards came to his
hotel by special messenger. He cursed his luck, and went
cheerfully about attending to a commission which Miss Euphrosyne, after
much urging, had given him, trembling at her own audacity.
The size of it had somewhat staggered him. She asked
him to take an order to a certain large dry-goods
house for nine traveling ulsters (la-dies', medium weight, measurements enclosed),
for which he was to select the materials.

"Men have so much taste," said Miss Euphro-syne. "Papa always
knew when we were well dressed."

Dick had to wait while another customer was served. He
stared at her in humble admiration. It was a British
actress, recently imported.

When Mr. Richard Cutter sat on the platform of Tusculum
station and saw his nine charges approach, ready for the
long trip to the Far West, it struck him that
the pinky-dun ulsters with the six-inch-square checks of pale red
and blue did not look, on these nine virgins, as
they looked on the British actress. It struck him, moreover,
that the nine "fore-and-aft," or "deer-stalker" caps which he had
thrown in as Friend-ship's Offering only served to more accentuate
a costume already accentuated.

But it was too late for retreat. The Baileys had
burned their bridges behind them. The old house was sold.
Their lot was cast in Montana. He had his naisgivings
; but he handed them gal-lantly into the train —
^it was not a vestibule ex-press, for economy forbade —
and they began their journey.

He had an uneasy feeling that they were no-ticed; that
the nine ladies in the ulsters of one pattern —
and of the pattern of his choosing — were attracting
more attention than any ladies not thus uniformed would have
attracted ; but he was not seriously disturbed until a
loquacious countryman sat down beside him.

"Eunnin' a lady baseball nine, be ye?" he inquired. "I
seen one, wunst, down to Ne' York. They can't play
ball not to speak of; but it's kinder fun lookin'
at 'em. Couldn't ye inter-dooce me to the pitcher?"

Mr. Cutter made a dignified reply, and with-drew to the
smoking-car. There a fat and affa-ble stranger tapped him on
the back and talked in his ear from the seat
behind.

"It don't pay, young man," he said. "I've handled 'em.
Female minstrels sounds first rate ; but they don't give
the show that catches the people. You've gotter have reel
talent kinder mixed in with them if you want to
draw."

"Them ladies in your comp'ny, where do they show?" inquired
the Conductor, as he examined the ten tickets that Dick
presented.

"What do you mean?" asked the irritated pioneer.

"If they show in Cleveland, I'd like to go, first
rate," the Conductor explained.

"Those ladies," Dick thundered, at the end of his patience,
"are not actresses!"

"Hmf ! What be they then?" asked the Con-ductor.

• • • • • • •

They had arrived at Buffalo. They had gone to the
Niagara Hotel, and had been told that there were no
rooms for them; and to the Tifft House, where there
were no rooms; and to the Genesee, where every room
was occupied. Final-ly they had found quarters in a very
queer hotel, where the clerk, as he dealt out the
keys, said:

"One for Lily, and one for Daisy and one for
Eosie — ^here. Boss, sort out the flower-bed your-self," as
he handed over the bunch.

Dick was taking a drink in the dingy bar-room, and
trying to forget the queer looks that had been cast
at his innocent caravan all the day, when the solitary
hall-boy brought a message summoning him to Miss Euphrosyne's room.
He went, with his moral tail between his mental legs.

"Mr. Cutter," said Miss Euphrosyne, firmly, "we have made a
mistake."

"It looks that way," replied Dick, feebly; "but may be
it's only the — the ulsters."

"No," said Miss Euphrosyne. "The ulsters are a part of
it; but the whole thing is wrong, Mr. Cutter; and
I see it all now. I didn't real-ize what it
meant. But my eyes have been opened.

Nine young unmarried women cannot go "West with a young
man — ^if you had heard what people were saying
all around us in the cars — ^you don't know.
We've got to give up the idea. Oh, but it
was awful!"

Miss Euphrosyne, trembling, hid her face in her hands. Her
tears trickled out through her thin fingers.

"And the old house is sold! What shall we do?
Where shall we go?" she cried, forgetting Dick utterly, lost
and helpless.

Dick was stalking up and down the room.

"It would be all right," he demanded, "if there was
a married woman to lead the gang, and if —
^if — ^if we caught on to something new in
the ulster line?"

"It might be different," Miss Euphrosyne ad-mitted, with a sob.
Speaking came hard to her. She was tired; well nigh
worn out.

"THEN," said Dick, with tremendous empha-sis, "what's the matter with
my marrying one of you?"

"Why, Mr. Cutter!" Miss Euphrosyne cried, "I had no idea
that you — you— ever — thought of — is
it Clytie?"

"Noj" said Mr. Cutter, "it isn't Clytie."

"Is it — is it — " Miss Euphrosyne 's
eyes lit up with hope long since extinguished, "is it
Aurora?"

"No!"

Dick Cutter could have been heard three rooms off.

"No!" he said, with all his lungs. "It ain't Clytie,
nor it ain't Aurora, nor it ain't Flora, nor Melpomene
nor Cybele nor Alveolar Aureole nor none of 'em. It's
YOU — Y-O-U! I want to marry you, and what's
more, I'm going to!"

"Oh! oh! oh! oh!" said poor Miss Euphro-syne, and hid
her face in her hands. She had never thought to
be happy, and now she was happy for one moment.
That seemed quite enough for her modest soul. And yet
more was to come.

For once in his life, Dick Cutter seized the right
moment to do the right thing. One hour later. Miss
Euphrosyne Bailey was Mrs. Eichard Cutter. She did not know
quite how it hap-pened. Clytie told her she had been
bullied into it. But oh! such sweet bullying!

"No," said Mr. Eichard Cutter one morning in September of
the next year, to Mr. Jack Winfield and his wife
(Miss Aurora Bailey that was), "I can't stop a minute.
"We're too busy up at the ranch. The Wife has
just bought out "Wilkinson; and I've got to round up
all his stock. I'll see you next month, at Clytie
's wed-ding. Queer, she should have gone off the last,
ain't it? Euphrosyne and I are going down to Butte
City Monday, to buy her a present. Know anybody who
wants to pay six per cent, for a thousand?"