"I HAVE made a discovery," said Emberlin as I entered
his room.

"What about?" I asked.

"A discovery," he replied, "about Discoveries." He radiated an unconcealed
satisfaction; the conversation had evidently gone exactly as he had
intended it to go. He had made his phrase, and,
repeating it lovingly—"A discovery about Discoveries"—he smiled benignly at me,
enjoying my look of mystification—an expression which, I confess, I
had purposely exaggerated in order to give him pleasure. For
Emberlin, in many ways so childish, took an especial delight
in puzzling and nonplussing his acquaintances; and these small triumphs,
these little "scores" off people afforded him some of his
keenest pleasures. I always indulged his weakness when I could,
for it was worth while being on Emberlin's good books.
To be allowed to listen to his post-prandial conversation was
a privilege indeed. Not only was he himself a consummately
good talker, but he had also the power of stimulating
others to talk well. He was like some subtle wine,
intoxicating just to the Meredithian level of tipsiness. In his
company you would find yourself lifted to the sphere of
nimble and mercurial conceptions; you would suddenly realize that some
miracle had occurred, that you were living no longer in
a dull world of jumbled things but somewhere above the
hotch-potch in a glassily perfect universe of ideas, where all
was informed, consistent, symmetrical. And it was Emberlin who, godlike,
had the power of creating this new and real world.
He built it out of words, this crystal Eden, where
no belly-going snake, devourer of quotidian dirt, might ever enter
and disturb its harmonies. Since I first knew Emberlin I
have come to have a greatly enhanced respect for magic
and all the formules of its liturgy. If by words
Emberlin can create a new world for me, can make
my spirit slough off completely the domination of the old,
why should not he or I or anyone, having found
the suitable phrases, exert by means of them an influence
more vulgarly miraculous upon the world of mere things? Indeed,
when I compare Emberlin and the common or garden black
magician of commerce, it seems to me that Emberlin is
the greater thaumaturge. But let that pass; I am straying
from my purpose, which was to give some description of
the man who so confidentially whispered to me that he
had made a discovery about Discoveries.

In the best sense of the word, then, Emberlin was
academic. For us who knew him his rooms were an
oasis of aloofness planted secretly in the heart of the
desert of London. He exhaled an atmosphere that combined the
fantastic speculativeness of the undergraduate with the more mellowed oddity
of incredibly wise and antique dons. He was immensely erudite,
but in a wholly unencyclopædic way—a mine of irrelevant information,
as his enemies said of him. He wrote a certain
amount, but, like Mallarmé, avoided publication, deeming it akin to
"the offence of exhibitionism." Once, however, in the folly of
youth, some dozen years ago, he had published a volume
of verses. He spent a good deal of time now
in assiduously collecting copies of his book and burning them.
There can be but very few left in the world
now. My friend Cope had the fortune to pick one
up the other day—a little blue book, which he showed
me very secretly. I am at a loss to understand
why Emberlin wishes to stamp out all trace of it.
There is nothing to be ashamed of in the book;
some of the verses, indeed, are, in their young ecstatic
fashion, good. But they are certainly conceived in a style
that is unlike that of his present poems. Perhaps it
is that which makes him so implacable against them. What
he writes now for very private manuscript circulation is curious
stuff. I confess I prefer the earlier work; I do
not like the stony, hard-edged quality of this sort of
thing—the only one I can remember of his later productions.
It is a sonnet on a porcelain figure of a
woman, dug up at Cnossus:

Regrettably, I cannot remember any of Emberlin's French poems. His
peculiar muse expresses herself better, I think, in that language
than in her native tongue.

Such is Emberlin; such, I should rather say, was he,
for, as I propose to show, he is not now
the man that he was when he whispered so confidentially
to me, as I entered the room, that he had
made a discovery about Discoveries.

I waited patiently till he had finished his little game
of mystification and, when the moment seemed ripe, I asked
him to explain himself. Emberlin was ready to open out.

"Well," he began, "these are the facts—a tedious introduction, I
fear, but necessary. Years ago, when I was first reading
Ben Jonson's Discoveries, that queer jotting of his, 'Eupompus gave
splendour to Art by Numbers,' tickled my curiosity. You yourself
must have been struck by the phrase, everybody must have
noticed it; and everybody must have noticed too that no
commentator has a word to say on the subject. That
is the way of commentators—the obvious points fulsomely explained and
discussed, the hard passages, about which one might want to
know something passed over in the silence of sheer ignorance.
'Eupompus gave splendour to Art by Numbers'—the absurd phrase stuck
in my head. At one time it positively haunted me.
I used to chant it in my bath, set to
music as an anthem. It went like this, so far
as I remember"—and he burst into song: "'Eupompus, Eu-u-pompus gave
sple-e-e-endour . . .'" and so on, through all the
repetitions, the dragged-out rises and falls of a parodied anthem.

"I sing you this," he said when he had finished,
"just to show you what a hold that dreadful sentence
took upon my mind. For eight years, off and on,
its senselessness has besieged me. I have looked up Eupompus
in all the obvious books of reference, of course. He
is there all right—Alexandrian artist, eternized by some wretched little
author in some even wretcheder little anecdote, which at the
moment I entirely forget; it had nothing, at any rate,
to do with the embellishment of art by numbers. Long
ago I gave up the search as hopeless; Eupompus remained
for me a shadowy figure of mystery, author of some
nameless outrage, bestower of some forgotten benefit upon the art
that he practised. His history seemed wrapt in an impenetrable
darkness. And then yesterday I discovered all about him and
his art and his numbers. A chance discovery, than which
few things have given me a greater pleasure.

"I happened upon it, as I say, yesterday when I
was glancing through a volume of Zuylerius. Not, of course,
the Zuylerius one knows," he added quickly, "otherwise one would
have had the heart out of Eupompus' secret years ago."

"Of course," I repeated, "not the familiar Zuylerius."

"Exactly," said Emberlin, taking seriously my flippancy, "not the familiar
John Zuylerius, Junior, but the elder Henricus Zuylerius, a much
less—though perhaps undeservedly so—renowned figure than his son. But this
is not the time to discuss their respective merits. At
any rate, I discovered in a volume of critical dialogues
by the elder Zuylerius, the reference, to which, without doubt,
Jonson was referring in his note. (It was of course
a mere jotting, never meant to be printed, but which
Jonson's literary executors pitched into the book with all the
rest of the available posthumous materials.) 'Eupompus gave splendour to
Art by Numbers'—Zuylerius gives a very circumstantial account of the
process. He must, I suppose, have found the sources for
it in some writer now lost to us."

Emberlin paused a moment to muse. The loss of the
work of any ancient writer gave him the keenest sorrow.
I rather believe he had written a version of the
unrecovered books of Petronius. Some day I hope I shall
be permitted to see what conception Emberlin has of the
Satyricon as a whole. He would, I am sure, do
Petronius justice—almost too much, perhaps.

"What was the story of Eupompus?" I asked. "I am
all curiosity to know."

Emberlin heaved a sigh and went on.

"Zuylerius' narrative," he said, "is very bald, but on the
whole lucid; and I think it gives one the main
points of the story. I will give it you in
my own words; that is preferable to reading his Dutch
Latin. Eupompus, then, was one of the most fashionable portrait-painters
of Alexandria. His clientele was large, his business immensely profitable.
For a half-length in oils the great courtesans would pay
him a month's earnings. He would paint likenesses of the
merchant princes in exchange for the costliest of their outlandish
treasures. Coal-black potentates would come a thousand miles out of
Ethiopia to have a miniature limned on some specially choice
panel of ivory; and for payment there would be camel-loads
of gold and spices. Fame, riches, and honour came to
him while he was yet young; an unparalleled career seemed
to lie before him. And then, quite suddenly, he gave
it all up—refused to paint another portrait. The doors of
his studio were closed. It was in vain that clients,
however rich, however distinguished, demanded admission; the slaves had their
order; Eupompus would see no one but his own intimates."

Emberlin made a pause in his narrative.

"What was Eupompus doing?" I asked.

"He was, of course," said Emberlin, "occupied in giving splendour
to Art by Numbers. And this, as far as I
can gather from Zuylerius, is how it all happened. He
just suddenly fell in love with numbers—head over ears, amorous
of pure counting. Number seemed to him to be the
sole reality, the only thing about which the mind of
man could be certain. To count was the one thing
worth doing, because it was the one thing you could
be sure of doing right. Thus, art, that it may
have any value at all, must ally itself with reality—must,
that is, possess a numerical foundation. He carried the idea
into practice by painting the first picture in his new
style. It was a gigantic canvas, covering several hundred square
feet—I have no doubt that Eupompus could have told you
the exact area to an inch—and upon it was represented
an illimitable ocean covered, as far as the eye could
reach in every direction, with a multitude of black swans.
There were thirty-three thousand of these black swans, each, even
though it might be but a speck on the horizon,
distinctly limned. In the middle of the ocean was an
island, upon which stood a more or less human figure
having three eyes, three arms and legs, three breasts and
three navels. In the leaden sky three suns were dimly
expiring. There was nothing more in the picture; Zuylerius describes
it exactly. Eupompus spent nine months of hard work in
painting it. The privileged few who were allowed to see
it pronounced it, finished, a masterpiece. They gathered round Eupompus
in a little school, calling themselves the Philarithmics. They would
sit for hours in front of his great work, contemplating
the swans and counting them; according to the Philarithmics, to
count and to contemplate were the same thing.

"Eupompus' next picture, representing an orchard of identical trees set
in quincunxes, was regarded with less favour by the connoisseurs.
His studies of crowds were, however, more highly esteemed; in
these were portrayed masses of people arranged in groups that
exactly imitated the number and position of the stars making
up various of the more famous constellations. And then there
was his famous picture of the amphitheatre, which created a
furore among the Philarithmics. Zuylerius again gives us a detailed
description. Tier upon tier of seats are seen, all occupied
by strange Cyclopean figures. Each tier accommodates more people than
the tier below, and the number rises in a complicated
but regular progression. All the figures seated in the amphitheatre
possess but a single eye, enormous and luminous, planted in
the middle of the forehead: and all these thousands of
single eyes are fixed, in a terrible and menacing scrutiny,
upon a dwarf-like creature cowering pitiably in the arena. .
. . He alone of the multitude possesses two eyes.

"I would give anything to see that picture," Emberlin added,
after a pause. "The colouring, you know; Zuylerius gives no
hint, but I feel somehow certain that the dominant tone
must have been a fierce brick-red—a red granite amphitheatre filled
with a red-robed assembly, sharply defined against an implacable blue
sky."

"Their eyes would be green," I suggested.

Emberlin closed his eyes to visualize the scene and then
nodded a slow and rather dubious assent.

"Up to this point," Emberlin resumed at length, "Zuylerius' account
is very clear. But his descriptions of the later philarithmic
art become extremely obscure; I doubt whether he understood in
the least what it was all about. I will give
you such meaning as I manage to extract from his
chaos. Eupompus seems to have grown tired of painting merely
numbers of objects. He wanted now to represent Number itself.
And then he conceived the plan of rendering visible the
fundamental ideas of life through the medium of those purely
numerical terms into which, according to him, they must ultimately
resolve themselves. Zuylerius speaks vaguely of a picture of Eros,
which seems to have consisted of a series of interlacing
planes. Eupompus' fancy seems next to have been taken by
various of the Socratic dialogues upon the nature of general
ideas, and he made a series of illustrations for them
in the same arithmo-geometric style. Finally there is Zuylerius' wild
description of the last picture that Eupompus ever painted. I
can make very little of it. The subject of the
work, at least, is clearly stated; it was a representation
of Pure Number, or God and the Universe, or whatever
you like to call that pleasingly inane conception of totality.
It was a picture of the cosmos seen, I take
it, through a rather Neoplatonic camera obscura—very clear and in
small. Zuylerius suggests a design of planes radiating out from
a single point of light. I dare say something of
the kind came in. Actually, I have no doubt, the
work was a very adequate rendering in visible form of
the conception of the one and the many, with all
the intermediate stages of enlightenment between matter and the Fons
Deitatis. However, it's no use speculating what the picture may
have been going to look like. Poor old Eupompus went
mad before he had completely finished it and, after he
had dispatched two of the admiring Philarithmics with a hammer,
he flung himself out of the window and broke his
neck. That was the end of him, and that was
how he gave splendour, regrettably transient, to Art by Numbers."

Emberlin stopped. We brooded over our pipes in silence; poor
old Eupompus!

That was four months ago, and to-day Emberlin is a
confirmed and apparently irreclaimable Philarithmic, a quite whole-hearted Eupompian.

It was always Emberlin's way to take up the ideas
that he finds in books and to put them into
practice. He was once, for example, a working alchemist, and
attained to considerable proficiency in the Great Art. He studied
mnemonics under Bruno and Raymond Lully, and constructed for himself
a model of the latter's syllogizing machine, in hopes of
gaining that universal knowledge which the Enlightened Doctor guaranteed to
its user. This time it is Eupompianism, and the thing
has taken hold of him. I have held up to
him all the hideous warnings that I can find in
history. But it is no use.

There is the pitiable spectacle of Dr. Johnson under the
tyranny of an Eupompian ritual, counting the posts and the
paving-stones of Fleet Street. He himself knew best how nearly
a madman he was.

And then I count as Eupompians all gamblers, all calculating
boys, all interpreters of the prophecies of Daniel and the
Apocalypse; then too the Elberfeld horses, most complete of all
Eupompians.

And here was Emberlin joining himself to this sect, degrading
himself to the level of counting beasts and irrational children
and men, more or less insane. Dr. Johnson was at
least born with a strain of the Eupompian aberration in
him; Emberlin is busily and consciously acquiring it. My expostulations,
the expostulations of all his friends, are as yet unavailing.
It is in vain that I tell Emberlin that counting
is the easiest thing in the world to do, that
when I am utterly exhausted, my brain, for lack of
ability to perform any other work, just counts and reckons,
like a machine, like an Elberfeld horse. It all falls
on deaf ears; Emberlin merely smiles and shows me some
new numerical joke that he has discovered. Emberlin can never
enter a tiled bathroom now without counting how many courses
of tiles there are from floor to ceiling. He regards
it as an interesting fact that there are twenty-six rows
of tiles in his bathroom and thirty-two in mine, while
all the public lavatories in Holborn have the same number.
He knows now how many paces it is from any
one point in London to any other. I have given
up going for walks with him. I am always made
so distressingly conscious by his preoccupied look, that he is
counting his steps.

His evenings, too, have become profoundly melancholy; the conversation, however
well it may begin, always comes round to the same
nauseating subject. We can never escape numbers; Eupompus haunts us.
It is not as if we were mathematicians and could
discuss problems of any interest or value. No, none of
us are mathematicians, least of all Emberlin. Emberlin likes talking
about such points as the numerical significance of the Trinity,
the immense importance of its being three in one, not
forgetting the even greater importance of its being one in
three. He likes giving us statistics about the speed of
light or the rate of growth in fingernails. He loves
to speculate on the nature of odd and even numbers.
And he seems to be unconscious how much he has
changed for the worse. He is happy in an exclusively
absorbing interest. It is as though some mental leprosy had
fallen upon his intelligence.

In another year or so, I tell Emberlin, he may
almost be able to compete with the calculating horses on
their own ground. He will have lost all traces of
his reason, but he will be able to extract cube
roots in his head. It occurs to me that the
reason why Eupompus killed himself was not that he was
mad; on the contrary, it was because he was, temporarily,
sane. He had been mad for years, and then suddenly
the idiot's self-complacency was lit up by a flash of
sanity. By its momentary light he saw into what gulfs
of imbecility he had plunged. He saw and understood, and
the full horror, the lamentable absurdity of the situation made
him desperate. He vindicated Eupompus against Eupompianism, humanity against the
Philarithmics. It gives me the greatest pleasure to think that
he disposed of two of that hideous crew before he
died himself.