"And so, dear," said Mrs. Waring to her beautiful niece,
Fanny Lovering, "you are about becoming a bride." The aunt
spoke tenderly, and with a manner that instantly broke down
all barriers of reserve.

"And a happy bride, I trust," returned the blushing girl,
as she laid her hand in that of her aunt,
and leaned upon her confidingly.

"Pray heaven it may be so, Fanny." Mrs. Waring's manner
was slightly serious. "Marriage is a very important step; and
in taking it the smallest error may become the fruitful
source of unhappiness."

"I shall make no error, Aunt Mary," cried the lovely
girl. "Edward Allen is one of the best of young
men; and he loves me as purely and tenderly as
any maiden could wish to be loved. Oh, I want
you to see him so much!"

"I will have that pleasure soon, no doubt."

"Yes, very soon. He is here almost every evening."

"Your father, I understand, thinks very highly of him."

"Oh yes. He is quite a pet of father's," replied
Fanny.

"He's in business, then, I suppose?"

"Yes. He keeps a fancy dry-goods' store, and is doing
exceedingly well--so he says."

Mrs. Waring sat silent for some time, lost in a
train of reflection suddenly started in her mind.

"You look serious, aunt. What are you thinking about?" said
Fanny, a slight shadow flitting over her countenance.

Mrs. Waring smiled, as she answered--

"People at my age are easily led into serious thoughts.
Indeed, I can never contemplate the marriage of a young
girl like yourself, without the intrusion of such thoughts into
my mind. I have seen many bright skies bending smilingly
over young hearts on the morning of their married life,
that long ere noon were draped in clouds."

"Don't talk so, dear aunt!" said the fair young girl.
"I know that life, to all, comes in shadow as
well as sunshine. But, while the sky is bright, why
dim its brightness by thoughts of the time when it
will be overcast. Is that true philosophy, Aunt Mary?"

"If such forethought will prevent the cloud, or provide a
shelter ere the storm breaks, it may be called true
philosophy. But, forgive me, dear, for thus throwing a shadow
where no shadow ought to rest. I will believe your
choice a wise one, and that a happy future awaits
you."

"You cannot help believing this when you see Edward. He
will be here to-night; then you will be able to
estimate him truly."

As Fanny had said, the young man called in after
tea, when Mrs. Waring was introduced. Allen responded to the
introduction somewhat coldly. In fact he was too much interested
in Fanny herself to think much, or care much for
the stranger, even though named as a relative. But, though
he noticed but casually, and passed only a few words
with Mrs. Waring, that lady was observing him closely, and
noting every phase of character that was presented for observation;
and, ere he left her presence, had read him far
deeper than he imagined.

"And now, Aunt Mary, tell me what you think of
Edward," said Fanny Lovering, as soon as the young man
had departed, and she was alone with Mrs. Waring.

"I must see him two or three times more ere
I can make up my mind in regard to him,"
said Mrs. Waring with something evasive in her manner. "First
impressions are not always to be relied on," she added,
smiling.

"Ah! I understand you,"--Fanny spoke with a sudden gayety of
manner--"you only wish to tease me a little. Now, confess
at once, dear Aunt Mary, that you are charmed with
Edward."

"I am not much given to quick prepossesions," answered Mrs.
Waring. "It may be a defect in my character; but
so it is. Mr. Allen, no doubt, is a most
excellent young man. You are sure that you love him,
Fanny?"

"Oh, Aunt Mary! How can you ask such a question?
Are we not soon to be married?"

"True. And this being so, you certainly should love him.
Now, can you tell me why you love him?"

"Why, aunt!"

"My question seems, no doubt, a strange one, Fanny. Yet,
strange as it may appear to you, it is far
from being lightly made. Calm your mind into reflection, and
ask yourself, firmly and seriously, why you love Edward Allen.
True love ever has an appreciating regard for moral excellence--and
knowledge must precede appreciation. What do you know of the
moral wisdom of this young man, into whose hands you
are about placing the destinies of your being for time--it
may be for eternity? Again let me put the question--Why
do you love Edward Allen?"

Fanny looked bewildered. No searching interrogations like these had been
addressed to her, even by her parents; and their effect
was to throw her whole mind into painful confusion.

"I love him for his excellent qualities, and because he
loves me," she at length said, yet with a kind
of uncertain manner, as if the reply did not spring
from a clear mental perception.

"What do you mean by excellent qualities?" further inquired Mrs.
Waring.

Tears came into Fanny's sweet blue eyes, as she answered--

"A young girl like me, dear Aunt Mary, cannot penetrate
very deeply into a man's character. We have neither the
opportunity nor the experience upon which, coldly, to base an
accurate judgment. The heart is our guide. In my own
case its instincts, I am sure, have not betrayed me
into a false estimate of my lover. I know him
to be good and noble; and I am sure his
tender regard for the maiden he has asked to become
his bride, will ever lead him to seek her happiness,
as she will seek his. Do not doubt him, aunt."

Yet, Mrs. Waring could not help doubting him. The young
man had not impressed her favourably. No word had fallen
from his lips during the evening unmarked by her--nor had
a single act escaped observation. In vain had she looked,
in his declarations of sentiments, for high moral purposes--for something
elevated and manly in tone. In their place she found
only exceeding worldliness, or the flippant commonplace.

"No basis there, I fear, on which to build," said
Mrs. Waring, thoughtfully, after parting with her niece for the
night. "Dear, loving, confiding child! The heart of a maiden
is not always her best guide. Like the conscience, it
needs to be instructed; must be furnished with tests of
quality."

On the day following, Mrs. Waring went out alone. Without,
seeming to have any purpose in her mind, she had
asked the number of Mr. Allen's store, whither she went
with the design of making a few purchases. As she
had hoped it would be, the young man did not
recognise her as the aunt of his betrothed. Among the
articles, she wished to obtain was a silk dress. Several
pieces of goods were shown to her, one of which
suited exactly, both in colour and quality.

"What is the price of this?" she asked.

The answer was not prompt. First, the ticket-mark was consulted;
then came a thoughtful pause; and then the young storekeeper
said--

"I cannot afford to sell you this piece of goods
for less than a dollar thirteen."

"A dollar thirty, did you say?" asked Mrs. Waring, examining
the silk more closely.

"Ye--yes, ma'am," quickly replied Allen. "A dollar thirty. And it's
a bargain at that, I do assure you."

Mrs. Waring raised her eyes and looked steadily for a
moment or two into the young man's face.

"A dollar and thirty cents," she repeated.

"Yes, ma'am. A dollar thirty," was the now assured answer.
"How many yards shall I measure off for you?"

"I want about twelve yards."

"There isn't a cheaper piece of goods in market," said
the young man, as he put his scissors into the
silk--"not a cheaper piece, I do assure you. I had
a large stock of these silks at the opening of
the season, and sold two-thirds of them at a dollar
and a half. But, as they are nearly closed out,
I am selling the remainder at a trifle above cost.
Can I show you any thing else, ma'am?"

"Not to-day, I believe," replied Mrs. Waring, as she took
out her purse. "How much does it come to?"

"Twelve yards at one dollar and thirty cents--just fifteen dollars
and sixty cents," said Allen.

Mrs. Waring counted out the money, and, as she handed
it to the young man, fixed her eyes again searchingly
upon him.

"Shall I send it home for you?" he asked.

"No--I will take it myself," said Mrs. Waring, coldly.

"What have you been buying, aunt?" inquired Fanny, when Mrs.
Waring had returned home with her purchase.

"A silk dress. And I want to know what you
think of my bargain?"

The silk was opened, and Fanny and her mother examined
and admired it.

"What did you pay for it, sister?" asked Mrs, Lovering,
the mother of Fanny.

"A dollar and thirty cents," was answered.

"Not a dollar thirty?" Marked surprise was indicated.

"Yes. Don't you think it cheap?"

"Cheap!" said Fanny. "It isn't worth over a dollar at
the outside. Mr. Allen has been selling the same goods
at ninety and ninety-five."

"You must certainly be in error," replied Mrs. Waring.

"Not at all," was the positive assertion. "Where did you
get the silk?"

A somewhat indefinite answer was given; to which Fanny returned--

"I only wish we had known your intention. Mother would
have gone with you to Edward's store. It is too
bad that you should have been so cheated. The person
who sold you the silk is no better than downright
swindler."

"If it is as you say," replied Mrs. Waring, calmly,
"he is not an honest man. He saw that I
was a stranger, ignorant of current prices, and he took
advantage of the fact to do me a wrong. I
am more grieved for his sake than my own. To
me, he loss is only a few dollars; to him--alas!
by what rule can we make the estimate?"

Much more was said, not needful here to repeat. In
the evening, Edward Allen called to see Fanny, who spoke
of the purchase made by Mrs. Waring. Her aunt was
present. The silk was produced in evidence of the fact
that she had been most shamefully wronged by some storekeeper.

"For what can you sell goods of a similar quality?"
was the direct question of Fanny.

The moment Allen saw the piece of silk, he recognised
it as the same he had sold in the morning.
Turning quickly, and with a flushing countenance, to that part
of the room where Mrs. Waring sat, partly in the
shadow, he became at once conscious of the fact that
she was the purchaser. The eyes of Fanny followed those
of the lover, and then came back to his face.
She saw the o'ermantling blush; the sudden loss of self-possession,
the quailing of his glance beneath the fixed look of
Mrs. Waring. At once the whole truth flashed upon her
mind, and starting up, she said, in a blended voice
of grief and indignation--

"Surely, surely, Edward, you are not the man!"

Before Allen could reply, Mrs. Waring said firmly: "Yes, it
is too true. He is the man!"

At this, Fanny grew deadly pale, staggered toward her mother,
and sunk, sobbing wildly, upon her bosom.

Too much excited and confused for coherent explanation, and too
clearly conscious of his mean dishonesty toward a stranger, Allen
attempted no vindication nor excuse, lest matters should assume even
a worse aspect. A moment or two he stood irresolute,
and then retired from the house. As he did so,
Mr. Lovering entered the room where this little scene had
just transpired, and was quite startled at the aspect of
affairs.

"What's this? What has happened? Fanny, child, what in the
name of wonder is the matter? Where's Edward?"

Mr. Lovering spoke hurriedly. As soon as practicable, the whole
affair was related.

"And is that all?" exclaimed Mr. Lovering, in surprise. "Pooh!
pooh! I'm really astonished! I thought that some dreadful thing
had happened."

"Don't you regard this as a very serious matter?" inquired
Mrs. Waring.

"Serious? No! It's a thing of every day occurrence. If
you are not a judge of the goods you attempt
to purchase, you must expect to pay for your ignorance.
Shopkeepers have to make up their ratio of profits in
the aggregate sales of the day. Sometimes they have to
sell a sharp customer at cost, rather than lose the
sale; and this must be made up on some one
like you."

"Not a serious matter," replied Fanny's aunt, "to discover that
the betrothed of your daughter is a dishonest man?"

"Nonsense! nonsense! you don't know what you are talking about,"
said Mr. Lovering, fretfully. "He's shrewd and sharp, as every
business-man who expects to succeed must be. As to his
trade operations, Fanny has nothing to do with them. He'll
make her a kind husband, and provide for her handsomely.
What more can she ask?"

"A great deal more," replied Mrs. Waring, firmly.

"What more, pray?"

"A husband, in whose high moral virtues, and unselfish regard
for the right, she can unerringly confide. One who will
never, in his eager desire to secure for himself some
personal end or gratification, forget what is due to the
tender, confiding wife who has placed all that is dear
to her in his guardianship. Brother, depend upon it, the
man who deliberately wrongs another to gain an advantage to
himself, will never, in marriage, make a truly virtuous woman
happy. This I speak thoughtfully and solemnly; and I pray
you take it to heart, ere conviction of what I
assert comes upon you too late. But, I may have
said too much. Forgive my plain speaking. From the fulness
of the heart is this utterance."

And so saying, Mrs. Waring passed from the room, and
left the parents of Fanny alone with their weeping child.
Few words were spoken by either Mr. or Mrs. Lovering.
Something in the last remarks of Mrs. Waring had startled
their minds into new convictions. As for the daughter, she
soon retired to her own apartment, and did not join
the family again until the next morning. Then, her sad
eyes and colorless face too plainly evidenced a night of
sleeplessness and suffering.

By a kind of tacit consent on the part of
each member of the family, no allusion, whatever, was made
to the occurrences of the day previous. Evening came, but
not as usual came Edward Allen. The next day, and
the next went by, without his accustomed appearance. For a
whole week his visits were omitted.

Grievous was the change which, in that time, had become
visible in Fanny Lovering. The very light of her life
seemed to go out suddenly; and, for a while, she
had groped about in thick darkness. A few feeble rays
were again becoming visible; but from a quarter of the
heavens where she had not expected light. Wisely, gently, and
unobtrusively had Mrs. Waring, during this period of gloom and
distress, cast high truths into the mind of her suffering
niece--and from these, as stars in the firmament of thought,
came the rays by which she was able to see
a path opening before her. When, at the end of
the tenth day of uncertainty, came a note from Allen,
in these brief words: "If it is Miss Lovering's wish
to be free from her engagement, a word will annul
the contract"--she replied, within ten minutes, "Let the contract be
annulled; you are free."

Two weeks later, and Mr. Lovering brought home the intelligence
that Allen was to be married in a few days
to a certain Miss Jerrold, daughter of a man reputed
wealthy.

"To Miss Jerrold! It cannot be!" said Mrs. Lovering in
surprise.

"I will not believe it, father." Fanny spoke with quivering
lips and a choking voice.

"Who is Miss Jerrold?" asked Mrs. Waring.

"A coarse, vulgar-minded girl, of whom many light things have
been said," replied Mrs. Lovering, indignantly. "But her father is
rich, and she is an only child."

"He never loved you, dear," said Mrs. Waring to Fanny
about a week later, as the yet suffering girl laid
her tearful face on her bosom. The news had just
come that Miss Jerrold was the bride of Allen. The
frame of the girl thrilled for a moment or two;
then all was calm, and she replied--

"Not as I wished to be loved. O aunt! what
an escape I have made! I look down the fearful
gulf on the very brink of which my feet were
arrested, and shudder to the heart's core. If he could
take her, he never could have appreciated me. Something more
than maiden purity and virtue attracted him. Ah! how could
my instincts have been so at fault!"

"Dear child," said Mrs. Waring, earnestly, "there can be no
true love, as I have before said to you, without
an appreciation of quality. A fine person, agreeable manners, social
position--in a word, all external advantages and attractions are nothing,
unless virtue be in the heart. It is a man's
virtues that a woman must love, if she loves truly.
If she assumes the possession of moral wisdom, without undoubting
evidence, she is false to herself. To marry under such
circumstances is to take a fearful risk. Alas! how many
have repented through a long life of wretchedness. Can a
true woman love a man who lacks principle--who will sacrifice
honour for a few paltry dollars--who will debase himself for
gain--whose gross sensuality suffocates all high, spiritual love? No! no!
It is impossible! And she who unites herself with such
a man, must either shrink, grovelling, down to his mean
level, or be inconceivably wretched."

Two years later, and results amply justified the timely interposition
of Mrs. Waring, and demonstrated the truth of her positions.
Her beautiful, true-hearted niece has become the bride of a
man possessing all the external advantages sought to be obtained
by Mr. and Mrs. Lovering in the proposed marriage with
Mr. Allen; and what is more and better, of one
whose love of truth and goodness is genuine, and whose
appreciation of his wife rests on a perception of her
womanly virtues. As years pass, and their knowledge of each
other becomes more intimate, their union will become closer and
closer, until affection and thought become so blended, that they
will act in all their mutual life-relations as one.

Alas! how different it is already with Edward Allen and
the woman he led to the altar, where each made
false vows the one to the other. There were no
qualities to be loved; and to each, person and principles
soon grew repellant. Through sharp practices in business, Allen is
rapidly adding to the fortune already acquired by trade and
marriage; but, apart from the love of accumulation, which keeps
his mind active and excited during business hours, he has
no pleasure in life. He does not love the woman
who presides in his elegant home, and she affects nothing
in regard to him. They only tolerate each other for
appearance sake. Sometimes, Fanny Lovering, now Mrs.----, meets them in
public; but never without an almost audibly breathed "Thank God,
that I am not in her place!" as her eyes
rest upon the countenance of Allen, in which evil and
selfish purposes have already stamped their unmistakable meanings.