'Way over in the village a bell was tolling. Three
people stood listening in the Lambert yard. The yard was
broad and green, and beyond that stretched level fields. Over
them floated and sung the bell-tones. It seemed almost as
if they might become visible, like birds. There was a
heavy dew. The short, crisp grass in the yard and
fields was covered with dewy cobwebs, which looked, in the
sunlight, like little wheels of silver. They glittered and shimmered,
and the bell tolled.

The three people stood with upturned faces. They were trying
to count the strokes. There were an old man, an
old woman, and a young girl. The old man stood
with his spreading feet planted squarely, like a child's; his
mouth was open; he held one hand curved behind his
ear; he was all simple curiosity. The woman held her
gingham skirts up out of the wet grass with both
hands. She turned one ear toward the sound, and kept
an eye on the young girl's face, as if she
half heard in that way. The girl, with her innocent,
wide-open eyes and small, round face, listened gravely. Her thin,
sober under-lip was drawn down at the corners.

When the last note had died away, and it was
certain that no other would come, the girl spoke first.
"I counted fifty," said she.

"Now, I didn't make it but forty-eight," said the old
man.

"I thought 'twas fifty-one," said the woman, "but I don't
put much dependence on my hearin'. I can't hear a
thing with my right ear, nohow. But I guess Ada's
right fast enough. She is if it's Angeline, an' I
guess it must be. I don't know of anybody else
that's sick. Angeline must have been just about fifty. She's
two years older than Edward would have been if he'd
lived."

"Well, I guess you'll find it ain't her," said the
old man, stumping toward the house. He had a little
limp in one knee. "I didn't count but forty-eight."

"I guess it's her, fast enough," said the woman, stepping
carefully after him. "Mr. Brown said yesterday she was real
low, an' the doctor said he shouldn't be surprised if
she didn't last the night out."

"I guess you'll find it ain't her."

The woman and girl entered the house. The man began
sawing some wood which was piled up beside the door.
Presently the old woman poked her head out of the
window. "Oliver," said she. "Oliver!" she called loudly, as if
he were a long way from her.

"What?"

"There's Mr. Brown's team comin' down the road. You just
run out and ask him who the bell tolled for."

Oliver Lambert limped slowly out of the yard and waylaid
the man on the approaching team. When he returned he
went hastily past the house in the direction of the
barn.

"Oliver, Oliver!" his wife called after him. "Who did he
say 'twas?"

Oliver made no reply. He hurried along as if he
did not hear.

"It's Angeline fast enough," his wife told Ada. "That's the
way he always acts when he finds out he's got
the worst of anything. He's took awful hard of hearin'
all of a sudden."

Ada laughed. She was washing the breakfast dishes at the
sink.

"I'd like to know if that's the way they all
do," said she.

"Well, I dunno 'bout all of 'em. I guess a
good many men hate to own up if they're beat.
I know most of 'em I've had anything to do
with did. Edward was jest so, if he was my
son. He was jest like his father, poor boy."

Mrs. Lambert was mopping the kitchen floor with unsteady vigor.
Her old arms trembled weakly, but she gave them no
rest. Her broad, wrinkled face lagged loosely about the cheeks,
her small black eyes were alert behind her spectacles.

"Say, grandma," said the girl at the sink. Some blushes
rose softly on her pretty cheeks. "I — wanted to
ask you — what was it about Angeline Laurence and
— my father?"

"Oh, 'twa'n't nothin'. They just went together a little while
once."

"Then he left her and married my mother?"

"Yes."

"How came he to? Was mother prettier?"

"No; I dunno as she was. Angeline was pretty good
lookin' in them days. They had a little difference, an'
then your mother came along. She come from Wardsboro, to
teach the district school. An' your father saw her, an'
they were married almost right away."

"What did they quarrel about?"

"Quarrel about? Lor', nothin' at all, near's I could make
out. The amount of it was he was jest like
his father; never could bear to be contradicted. An' it
seemed as if he would die if anybody else got
the best of it. He was a real good boy,
too; not a bad thing about him unless 'twas that,
an' I dunno's you'd call that bad. He come by
it honest enough. I dunno as he could help it.
All I ever knew was, he an' Angeline got to
disputin' as to who was goin' to preach one Sunday.
She thought there was a notice given out that Mr.
Munroe — he was settled here then — was goin'
to exchange with a Mr. Pepperell from Rowley, an' he
declared there wasn't. Angeline was a little set herself; liked
to have her own way pretty well.

"Well, when Sunday came, an' there was Mr. Pepperell in
the pulpit, she jest crowed over him. She waited in
the entry till we came out, then she edged nearer
the door, an' then she gave Edward a poke. 'Who
do you think's going to preach?' says she. Some of
the other girls was standin' round, an' they laughed. I
s'pose she'd told 'em.

"Well, Edward he never laughed. He kinder straightened up an'
walked off. He didn't go to see her that Sunday
night, an' he met your mother, an' that was the
end of it."

"Didn't she feel bad?"

"Yes, I s'pose she did. She'd been goin' with him
a pretty long time. I know as well as I
want to that she wrote to him an' tried to
straighten it out, but it wa'n't no use. She never
got married, an' I know she had chances. There's father
comin'."

"Ask him who 'twas."

"Who did Mr. Brown say the bell tolled for?" asked
Mrs. Lambert as the old man entered the kitchen. He
shuffled over to the shelf and took up his pipe,
which was lying there. He did not open his lips.

"Oliver!"

"What are you hollerin' so fur?"

"Thought you didn't hear. I wanted to know who the
bell tolled for."

"I heard the first time you spoke."

"Who was it?"

"Well, I s'pose 'twas Angeline."

"There, what did I tell you?"

"You didn't git her age right, nohow. She wa'n't but
forty-eight."

"Why, Oliver, she was two years older than Edward would
have been if he'd lived, an' he'd been forty-eight this
June comin'."

"He wouldn't ha' been but forty-six."

"Why, Oliver Lambert! Well, you might jest as well have
your own way first as last. I ain't goin' to
say another word."

"I guess I kin tell when the bell strikes forty-eight,
an' I ain't goin' to be beat out. I ain't
quite so fur behind the times."

"Well, have it forty-eight," said his wife with an air
of virtuous patience. "I've give in to you fifty year,
an' I guess I kin a little longer. I ain't
goin' to fight over poor Angeline, nohow. She's gone, an'
that's enough to say about it. I s'pose she's left
quite a little property. They say she's owned her house
clear quite a while now."

"I guess you'll find it ain't clear."

"Well, mebbe it ain't."

The girl laughed slyly over her dishes. However, in the
course of a few weeks, old Oliver Lambert's obstinacy was
proven vain in this matter also. Poor Angeline Laurence, dying
solitary, without kindred, had left her little house, free and
unencumbered, to the daughter of her dead lover, Edward Lambert.
It made no difference now to this modest maiden woman,
who had kept an affection hidden in her heart for
thirty years, that all the villagers were staring at it
out in the light, like the skeleton of an old
beauty.

"She never got over it," said they. But she lay
in her grave, with the grass springing over her, and
did not hear.

When Ada Lambert knew of the legacy which the dead
woman had left to her, she set up her dimly
remembered face, like a saint's, in her orthodox heart. Those
thin, rosy cheeks, those heavy-lidded, resolute eyes, and the smoothly
crimped, gray-yellow hair gleamed out of its inner shadows. She
worshiped it with purest offerings of love and pity and
sympathy. If it were worth the while, poor Angeline was
really canonized in return for her long years of silent
suffering, and had her own shrine and her own devotee.
She even had her tender vengeance over her long-dead rival,
the pretty school-teacher whom Edward Lambert had married. Ada could
not remember her mother's face at all, she had died
so long ago. Angeline Laurence's stood out now in the
place of it, to her girlish craving. She thought it
all over, half-shamefacedly, when she was alone. She knew nothing
of love, except in dreams and delicate imaginings. When confronted
by the reality of it, in the lives of her
own dead father and this dead woman whom she had
known, she was all a-tremble with indignation and wonder. "She
must have thought everything of father," said the girl to
herself, her little face all flushed and troubled.

"I wish I'd known," she told her grandmother; "I would
have gone in and seen her when she was sick."

"If you had, folks would ha' said you went after
her money, likely as not."

"I wouldn't have cared what they said. I remember now
she used to take a good deal of pains to
speak to me when she met me. She used to
look at me real kind of funny. I never knew
what it meant."

"You look a good deal the way your father did.
I s'pose she saw it. Well, 'twa'n't anything against her."

"Against her — I guess it wasn't!"

Ada's legacy was a small house, with a little yard
and garden, over in the village. The day when she
took the key into her own possession and went over
her new domicile, in company with her admiring grandparents, was
the beginning of a new era in her life. Stepping
over that threshold, she stepped also a pace farther into
the mystery of love and the world, even though she
was led on by another's experience instead of her own.

Emerging at last from these little, simple, silent rooms, she
seemed to have a longer road to look back upon.
Angeline Laurence's memory was added to her own.

"You're pretty well off, I take it," her grandmother said,
with honest gratulation, as they were all riding home. "Everythin'
in the house is good. I didn't know she did
have such nice things. There's chiny and other dishes, an'
table-cloths, an' plenty of beddin'. An' did you look in
them bureau drawers?"

"I couldn't bear to," said Ada, and she fell to
crying.

Her grandmother looked wonderingly at her. "Of course it makes
anybody feel bad. Poor Angeline," said she. "But it's what
we all have to come to. Things has to be
left, an' the livin' has to make use of 'em.
There's a real good black silk in the front chamber
closet, an' a nice brown woolen. They'd make over real
nice for you, some time. There ain't no use savin'
such things for the moths to eat up."

But Angeline's clothes hung undisturbed in her closets, and her
dainty store of linen lay folded in her bureau, in
spite of Mrs. Lambert's protests. Ada would not have them
touched. She was glad, in her heart, that the house
could not be rented and stood vacant for the next
two years. At the end of that time her grandparents
died within a month of each other, and Ada sold
the lonely farm and went to live in her little
village house. She had four thousand dollars in the bank.
People thought her remarkably fortunate. Still, they marveled at her.
"The idea of that young thing living all alone," they
said.

Ada was twenty and looked seventeen. She combed her pale
yellow hair straight back, and put it in a net
like a little girl. She looked into people's faces directly
and questioningly, like a child. Kindly women made plans for
her. They proposed lone females — dressmakers and tailoresses —
for companions; they provided other homes; but the little, innocent-faced
girl was resolute.

"Well, she'll get married," said all of them, covering their
defeat with knowing looks. They watched her sharply, but she
was very circumspect. She had always been a simple, sensible
girl, and had looked upon some of her mates and
their fleeting love-affairs with grave wonder.

Now some of the eligible young men used to eye
her in church and look when they passed the house.
But she never knew it. They wanted to call on
her, but did not venture. She went out seldom. She
had one girl friend, whom she used to visit now
and then, running in of an afternoon with her work.
She lived quite near, and her name was Ellen Ives.
She was a plain, silent girl.

It was spring when Ada came to enjoy her legacy.
She worked in her garden a good deal. She hired
a man to plant vegetables, then she weeded and tended
them, and made a flower garden for herself. The box-border
of Angeline's old flower garden still remained, outlining vigorously the
heart and diamond shaped beds, where the pinks and marigolds
used to grow. Some of the hardy perennials came bravely
again this spring. Angeline's flowering almonds and blue columbine and
spider-lilies blossomed out to her memory. The small front yard
was all taken up by the flower garden. The vegetable
garden lay behind the house. A row of lusty currant
bushes divided Ada's land on one side from a neighbor's.

One afternoon she stood at them, picking some currants for
her tea. She was methodical in her habits. She had
her little white-covered table set against the kitchen wall for
her solitary meal, three times a day, after Angeline's old
fashion. She had out Angeline's silver spoons, and blue-and-white ware,
and her Brittania teapot. The currants were growing scanty on
the bushes. Ada had to pick here and there as
she could.

"If you'll come over this side, you'll find 'em thick,"
said a voice suddenly.

She started violently. "I didn't mean to scare you," said
the voice, and ended in a kindly laugh.

Ada saw Sylvester Noble standing under an old apple tree
on his side of the bushes. The apple tree was
old and scraggly. Half of the branches were dead and
covered with gray moss. They dipped down into the grass.
The grass was tall and bending, the daisies and buttercups
were as high as the grass. Here and there were
some little bushes of pink roses, which looked half smothered.
There was a little furrow of prostrate flowers which marked
Sylvester's track from the house-door. He was tall and sinewy;
his head, with its yellow hair and yellow, straggling beard,
towered up among the apple boughs.

Ada looked at him hesitatingly. She knew who he was,
but she had never spoken to him.

"You'd better come over this side. They haven't been touched
here."

"Thank you."

"Come right through here."

Ada found herself in Sylvester Noble's yard. She began picking
the currants confusedly. Sylvester stood watching her. "Why didn't you
get 'em before?" said he.

"I didn't know but they belonged to you."

"Course they don't. They're your bushes."

When Ada's little dish was full, she looked up in
Sylvester's face timidly before she went through into her own
yard.

"Thank you for telling me," said she.

"You're welcome. I wanted to ask you — don't you
ever feel afraid, alone there in the house?"

"Not much."

"It isn't any of my business, but haven't you got
any folks that could come and live with you?"

"No, I haven't got any folks. But I suppose I
could have somebody come, if I wanted 'em."

"Seems to me I would, if I was you."

"Oh, I get along well enough. I'm hardly ever afraid."

"Well —" Sylvester hesitated, and his blond face flushed. "I
was just going to say, I don't know as you
knew, but I sleep here on this side of the
house, and I wake at the least thing, and if
you was to have a little bell, and was to
ring it if anything scared you in the night, I
should hear it quicker than lightning."

"Thank you."

"Miss Laurence used to have one. Do you know where
it is?"

"Yes." Ada remembered. The little brass bell stood on the
bureau in the bedroom where Angeline had slept.

"Well, you ring it if you get scared."

The girl had felt sometimes, in the silent house, that
horror of loneliness which is worse than legitimate fear. She
had lain awake nights, though she had not owned to
it, and her young persistency had not been in the
least affected. After this she never did. She looked at
Angeline's little bell, which could summon Sylvester Noble to her
protection, and felt secure, and slept sweetly.

Noble was a mild mystery in the town. He had,
after a manner, withdrawn himself into a corner, away from
his kind, and laid himself open to speculation. Either he
had some private plum of guilt or grief to consider,
or his brain was touched. People saw no harm in
Noble, so they inclined to the latter view. Ada always
heard him called "love-cracked" without much consideration. Now she coupled
this idea with her theory of Angeline, and another wonder
and pity sprang up in her heart. She thought about
him as she moved around her little house, and she
talked him over with Ellen.

"Do you suppose the girl he was in love with
is dead?" asked she.

But Ellen knew no more than she. All any one
knew was that Sylvester Noble was about forty years old;
that he had lived in the village eight or nine
years, all alone in a small, neglected house which he
had purchased; that he must have some slender means of
support, for he apparently did not labor; and that every
summer, through most of July and August, he was away
camping out somewhere. This summer July melted into August, and
Sylvester had not gone. One day, about the middle of
the month, he came to the currant bushes and looked
over. Ada was sewing at the window. She saw him,
and ran out of the house and across the yard
to him.

Noble looked down at her. "I'm going away," said he.
"I thought I'd let you know."

Ada looked up at him in a frightened way. "Aren't
you coming back?"

"Coming back? Yes, of course I am. I'm just going
over to the Green Hills to stay a week or
two. I go every summer, you know. I've got a
little shanty I built over there —"

"Oh."

"I hope you won't get frightened while I'm gone."

"Oh, no, I won't."

"I've been thinking — won't that Ives girl come over
and stay with you nights?"

"I suppose she would, but I ain't afraid."

"You ask her, won't you?"

"Why, I suppose I can."

"You ask her to-night, and let me know before I
go, will you?"

"Yes."

Noble stood looking at her silently. She tried to talk.

"What do you do in the Green Hills?" said she.

He laughed. "Kill snakes."

She shuddered. "What for?"

He laughed again. "Oh, I like to."

"Like to!"

"Yes, they're better out of the way. They're awful things!"

Ada looked bewildered and frightened. "Aren't you afraid?" said she,
trembling.

"Afraid of snakes? No, I've got over that."

Ada's face was quite white. Noble saw it, and his
tone changed.

"I do other things besides killing snakes," he said. "I
pick up stones and queer objects, and then I write
things about them."

"Can you?" said she with awe.

"Yes. I didn't have much schooling — father was all
for saving money — but I've picked up some knowledge.
I know a little about stones and plants, and I
write about 'em, and they pay me something, and that's
the way I keep soul and body together."

Ada looked at him with relief and admiration. "If he
can do that, he's just as right as I am,"
she thought to herself. "They can call him love-cracked all
they want to."

She expressed this opinion with girlish force to Ellen Ives
when she came to spend the nights with her, but
she did not give her reason for it. "I ain't
going to have the whole town talking about his affairs,"
she thought to herself.

After two weeks or so she saw him enter the
house at dusk one Saturday. That night she stayed alone,
and blew out her light with a reliant look at
the bell. She sat in church the next day, sweet
and fair in her Sunday clothes, and thought about Sylvester
Noble, while one or two young men, orthodox, and steady,
and reliable, eyed her furtively.

"I wish he'd go to meeting," she thought to herself.
She saw him for a moment that afternoon. He gave
her a pail of blackberries and a great bunch of
ferns and flowers over the currant bushes. He looked very
handsome to her, with his sunburned face, in his coarse
gray trousers and blue woolen blouse.

"There isn't a young man in town half as good-looking,"
she thought complacently.

The autumn came and went, and the winter began. Ada
entered on her lonely way through it with good courage.
This kindly, erratic neighbor stood by her faithfully. He shoveled
her paths, and did errands for her when the roads
were impassable to a woman. Through the long, dreary evenings
a lamp shone into her room from his window. She
could see him sitting there through the long, snowy days.
Still, he never entered her house, though she asked him
to when he came to the door on errands.

Ada went about this winter with the other young people
of the village. She never dreamed how wistfully Sylvester used
to watch her when she came into her house with
two or three girls, laughing and chatting.

"She'll be just like the others," he muttered, and went
on grimly with his writing, which was slow work to
Sylvester Noble. He had little besides nature to assist him,
and she, grand, beautiful goddess that she was, faltered among
his nouns and verbs. Noble's articles had to have a
good deal of revision, but the editors snatched at them.
The man really had something new to say about his
subjects.

Once he showed Ada a magazine with one of his
nature papers in it. Her simple wonder delighted him. He
had never before felt a thrill of pride over his
work.

"Anybody could do it," he said, blushing. Ada read the
article over and over. She could not understand it, but
she thought it beautiful.

When spring came, and she could be out in her
yard and see him oftener, she was glad without knowing
it. One June evening she was sitting in her door
when he sauntered over. "Won't you come in?" she said,
rising.

"No, thank you. I'll just sit down here a minute."

So he sat down on the step beside her. He
had never before done such a thing. They had only
sat there a few minutes when Ellen Ives came in
the gate. Sylvester started up abruptly, and was gone across
the yard before Ada could say a word in answer
to his good night.

"Who was that run so quick?" asked Ellen, coming up
to the door.

"Mr. Noble."

"Ada, you don't mean to say he was really over
here sitting with you!"

"He came over just a minute ago."

"I just heard something awful about him."

"What do you mean?"

"I thought you ought to know. I know he's been
real kind to you, but I'm afraid he ain't any
kind of a man."

"I'd like to know what you mean."

"I had it real straight. Alice Roberts told me, and
she had it from her cousin that lives over in
Pembroke. That's where he's from, you know. She said that
he cheated his brother out of his share of his
father's property, and that wasn't the worst of it. He
got away the girl his brother was engaged to —"

"Is — he married?"

"Yes, he married her, but I believe she died. Alice
said he wasn't any kind of a man, and it's
all nonsense about his being disappointed in love. I wouldn't
have anything more to do with him if I was
you."

"I can't believe such a story."

"Well, I wouldn't if I hadn't had it so straight."

"Well, I don't care; he's treated me well. I don't
believe a word of it."

She did, however. After Ellen had gone home, half indignant
with her, she owned to herself what she would not
to her. She set the bell far back on the
bureau when she went to bed. "Ring it for him!"
she muttered bitterly.

The next day she never looked his way. She kept
on the other side of the house. She did not
go out in the garden. Toward night he came to
the door and knocked.

"I just wanted to let you know," said he, "that
I was goin' away to-morrow."

"Are you?"

He looked at her wonderingly. "I shan't be gone long,
not more'n two or three weeks. Can't you have the
Ives girl come over, the way you did before?"

"I can manage my own affairs, thank you," said Ada.

Sylvester Noble turned pale. He looked at her as if
he could not believe his ears. "It isn't quite safe
for you to be here all alone nights," he went
on with piteous eagerness, "when there isn't anybody in my
house. Mr. White's is quite a way off."

Ada looked at him. Then she thought of the other
girl, the one he had married, and he looked changed
to her. "I'm entirely capable of looking after my own
business," said she in a hard voice. She held her
head back and looked at him, with the stiff dignity
of rural girlhood.

He never said another word. He turned away and went
home. The next morning he started on his annual trip
to the Green Hills. Ada watched him, peeping around the
corner of her window-curtain. She stayed alone this time. She
said to herself that she did not want Ellen.

Three weeks went by, and Sylvester had not returned. Ada
began to watch for him uneasily, though she would not
have welcomed him if he had come. One afternoon Ellen
came over in great excitement, her pale, heavy face flushed.

"What do you think, Ada?" said she. "It wasn't so
about him. Alice got it mixed up. It was his
brother instead of him. Sylvester never did a thing out
of the way. His brother got away the girl he
was engaged to, and married her, and he never knew
till 'twas all over. They deceived him all the time.
She made believe to think everything of Sylvester, when all
the while it was his brother. And when he found
it out he just gave his brother all his share
of their father's property and came away here. He settled
the money on the girl, so she wouldn't suffer. He
knew his brother couldn't support her, for he'd lost most
of his own money —"

"So there wasn't a word of it true," said Ada
slowly. She stared across at Noble's deserted house. After Ellen
had gone she went over there, plunging through the high,
damp tangle of green things in the yard. She had
a half hope that he might have returned. She knocked
on the old door. There was no paint on the
house. Lilac trees grew thickly around it, pressing against the
walls, brushing the eaves. The door trembled beneath her touch;
a hollow echo came from within. She stood waiting. Then
she knocked again.

Finally she went home. "If I ever see him again
—" she whispered.

The Green Hills were only six miles away. Their softly
undulating outlines were visible against the northern sky. Ada used
to sit gazing at them. Her little plain face grew
plainer and thinner. Three weeks more passed and Sylvester had
not returned, then three weeks more.

One morning Ada went out. She acknowledged to herself no
definite purpose. There was a straight road to the Green
Hills. She knew it well. She kept walking. She emerged
from the village and passed scattered houses.

The road lay along the base of the Green Hills.
They rose from it softly — green, piny slopes, interspersed
with gray ledges of rock. On the side of the
road stood a poor little dwelling with some children swarming
about it. Ada stopped and inquired:

"Can you tell me where Mr. Noble stays up there?"
said she, pointing to the hill.

"The man that kills snakes you mean?" asked a woman
appearing in the door.

"Yes."

"Why, you just go right up that path over there.
I don't let the children go, I'm so afraid of
snakes."

"He killed sixteen last week," said one of the children.

"Hold your tongue! He didn't, neither. 'Twas two or three
weeks ago. I'm most afraid somethin' has happened to him,
I haven't seen him for so long. You keep right
on that path. He's got a house up there. Are
you his girl?"

"No."