Mr. Nathaniel Clark and Mrs. Bowman had just finished their
third game of draughts. It had been a difficult game
for Mr. Clark, the lady's mind having been so occupied
with other matters that he had had great difficulty in
losing. Indeed, it was only by pushing an occasional piece
of his own off the board that he had succeeded.

"A penny for your thoughts, Amelia," he said, at last.

Mrs. Bowman smiled faintly. "They were far away," she confessed.

Mr. Clark assumed an expression of great solemnity; allusions of
this kind to the late Mr. Bowman were only too
frequent. He was fortunate when they did not grow into
reminiscences of a career too blameless for successful imitation.

"I suppose," said the widow, slowly--"I suppose I ought to
tell you: I've had a letter."

Mr. Clark's face relaxed.

"It took me back to the old scenes," continued Mrs.
Bowman, dreamily. "I have never kept anything back from you,
Nathaniel. I told you all about the first man I
ever thought anything of--Charlie Tucker?"

Mr. Clark cleared his throat. "You did," he said, a
trifle hoarsely. "More than once."

"I've just had a letter from him," said Mrs. Bowman,
simpering. "Fancy, after all these years! Poor fellow, he has
only just heard of my husband's death, and, by the
way he writes--"

She broke off and drummed nervously on the table.

"He hasn't heard about me, you mean," said Mr. Clark,
after waiting to give her time to finish.

"How should he?" said the widow.

"If he heard one thing, he might have heard the
other," retorted Mr. Clark. "Better write and tell him. Tell
him that in six weeks' time you'll be Mrs. Clark.
Then, perhaps, he won't write again."

Mrs. Bowman sighed. "I thought, after all these years, that
he must be dead," she said, slowly, "or else married.
But he says in his letter that he has kept
single for my sake all these years."

"Well, he'll be able to go on doing it," said
Mr. Clark; "it'll come easy to him after so much
practice."

"He--he says in his letter that he is coming to
see me," said the widow, in a low voice, "to--to--this
evening."

"Coming to see you?" repeated Mr. Clark, sharply. "What for?"

"To talk over old times, he says," was the reply.
"I expect he has altered a great deal; he was
a fine-looking fellow--and so dashing. After I gave him up
he didn't care what he did. The last I heard
of him he had gone abroad."

Mr. Clark muttered something under his breath, and, in a
mechanical fashion, began to build little castles with the draughts.
He was just about to add to an already swaying
structure when a thundering rat-tat- tat at the door dispersed
the draughts to the four corners of the room. The
servant opened the door, and the next moment ushered in
Mrs. Bowman's visitor.

A tall, good-looking man in a frock-coat, with a huge
spray of mignonette in his button-hole, met the critical gaze
of Mr. Clark. He paused at the door and, striking
an attitude, pronounced in tones of great amazement the Christian
name of the lady of the house.

"Mr. Tucker!" said the widow, blushing.

"The same girl," said the visitor, looking round wildly, "the
same as the day she left me. Not a bit
changed; not a hair different."

He took her extended hand and, bending over it, kissed
it respectfully.

"It's--it's very strange to see you again, Mr. Tucker," said
Mrs. Bowman, withdrawing her hand in some confusion.

"Mr. Tucker!" said that gentleman, reproachfully; "it used to be
Charlie."

Mrs. Bowman blushed again, and, with a side glance at
the frowning Mr. Clark, called her visitor's attention to him
and introduced them. The gentlemen shook hands stiffly.

"Any friend of yours is a friend of mine," said
Mr. Tucker, with a patronizing air. "How are you, sir?"

Mr. Clark replied that he was well, and, after some
hesitation, said that he hoped he was the same. Mr.
Tucker took a chair and, leaning back, stroked his huge
mustache and devoured the widow with his eyes. "Fancy seeing
you again!" said the latter, in some embarrassment. "How did
you find me out?"

"It's a long story," replied the visitor, "but I always
had the idea that we should meet again. Your photograph
has been with me all over the world. In the
backwoods of Canada, in the bush of Australia, it has
been my one comfort and guiding star. If ever I
was tempted to do wrong, I used to take your
photograph out and look at it."

"I s'pose you took it out pretty often?" said Mr.
Clark, restlessly. "To look at, I mean," he added, hastily,
as Mrs. Bowman gave him an indignant glance.

"Every day," said the visitor, solemnly. "Once when I injured
myself out hunting, and was five days without food or
drink, it was the only thing that kept me alive."

Mr. Clark's gibe as to the size of the photograph
was lost in Mrs. Bowman's exclamations of pity.

"I once lived on two ounces of gruel and a
cup of milk a day for ten days," he said,
trying to catch the widow's eye. "After the ten days--"

"When the Indians found me I was delirious," continued Mr.
Tucker, in a hushed voice, "and when I came to
my senses I found that they were calling me 'Amelia.'"

Mr. Clark attempted to relieve the situation by a jocose
inquiry as to whether he was wearing a mustache at
the time, but Mrs. Bowman frowned him down. He began
to whistle under his breath, and Mrs. Bowman promptly said,
"H'sh!"

"But how did you discover me?" she inquired, turning again
to the visitor.

"Wandering over the world," continued Mr. Tucker, "here to-day and
there to-morrow, and unable to settle down anywhere, I returned
to Northtown about two years ago. Three days since, in
a tramcar, I heard your name mentioned. I pricked up
my ears and listened; when I heard that you were
free I could hardly contain myself. I got into conversation
with the lady and obtained your address, and after travelling
fourteen hours here I am."

"How very extraordinary!" said the widow. "I wonder who it
could have been? Did she mention her name?"

Mr. Tucker shook his head. Inquiries as to the lady's
appearance, age, and dress were alike fruitless. "There was a
mist before my eyes," he explained. "I couldn't realize it.
I couldn't believe in my good fortune."

"I can't think--" began Mrs. Bowman.

"What does it matter?" inquired Mr. Tucker, softly. "Here we
are together again, with life all before us and the
misunderstandings of long ago all forgotten."

Mr. Clark cleared his throat preparatory to speech, but a
peremptory glance from Mrs. Bowman restrained him.

"I thought you were dead," she said, turning to the
smiling Mr. Tucker. "I never dreamed of seeing you again."

"Nobody would," chimed in Mr. Clark. "When do you go
back?"

"Back?" said the visitor. "Where?"

"Australia," replied Mr. Clark, with a glance of defiance at
the widow. "You must ha' been missed a great deal
all this time."

Mr. Tucker regarded him with a haughty stare. Then he
bent towards Mrs. Bowman.

"Do you wish me to go back?" he asked, impressively,

"We don't wish either one way or the other," said
Mr. Clark, before the widow could speak. "It don't matter
to us."

"We?" said Mr. Tucker, knitting his brows and gazing anxiously
at Mrs. Bowman. "We?"

"We are going to be married in six weeks' time,"
said Mr. Clark.

Mr. Tucker looked from one to the other in silent
misery; then, shielding his eyes with his hand, he averted
his head. Mrs. Bowman, with her hands folded in her
lap, regarded him with anxious solicitude.

"I thought perhaps you ought to know," said Mr. Clark.

Mr. Tucker sat bolt upright and gazed at him fixedly.
"I wish you joy," he said, in a hollow voice.

"Thankee," said Mr. Clark; "we expect to be pretty happy."
He smiled at Mrs. Bowman, but she made no response.
Her looks wandered from one to the other--from the good-looking,
interesting companion of her youth to the short, prosaic little
man who was exulting only too plainly in his discomfiture.

Mr. Tucker rose with a sigh. "Good-by," he said, extending
his hand.

"You are not going--yet?" said the widow.

Mr. Tucker's low-breathed "I must" was just audible. The widow
renewed her expostulations.

"Perhaps he has got a train to catch," said the
thoughtful Mr. Clark.

"No, sir," said Mr. Tucker. "As a matter of fact,
I had taken a room at the George Hotel for
a week, but I suppose I had better get back
home again."

"No; why should you?" said Mrs. Bowman, with a rebellious
glance at Mr. Clark. "Stay, and come in and see
me sometimes and talk over old times. And Mr. Clark
will be glad to see you, I'm sure. Won't you
Nath--Mr. Clark?"

"I shall be--delighted," said Mr. Clark, staring hard at the
mantelpiece. "De-lighted."

Mr. Tucker thanked them both, and after groping for some
time for the hand of Mr. Clark, who was still
intent upon the mantelpiece, pressed it warmly and withdrew. Mrs.
Bowman saw him to the door, and a low-voiced colloquy,
in which Mr. Clark caught the word "afternoon," ensued. By
the time the widow returned to the room he was
busy building with the draughts again.

Mr. Tucker came the next day at three o'clock, and
the day after at two. On the third morning he
took Mrs. Bowman out for a walk, airily explaining to
Mr. Clark, who met them on the way, that they
had come out to call for him. The day after,
when Mr. Clark met them returning from a walk, he
was assured that his silence of the day before was
understood to indicate a distaste for exercise.

"And, you see, I like a long walk," said Mrs.
Bowman, "and you are not what I should call a
good walker."

"You never used to complain," said Mr. Clark; "in fact,
it was generally you that used to suggest turning back."

"She wants to be amused as well," remarked Mr. Tucker;
"then she doesn't feel the fatigue."

Mr. Clark glared at him, and then, shortly declining Mrs.
Bowman's invitation to accompany them home, on the ground that
he required exercise, proceeded on his way. He carried himself
so stiffly, and his manner was so fierce, that a
well-meaning neighbor who had crossed the road to join him,
and offer a little sympathy if occasion offered, talked of
the weather for five minutes and inconsequently faded away at
a corner.

Trimington as a whole watched the affair with amusement, although
Mr. Clark's friends adopted an inflection of voice in speaking
to him which reminded him strongly of funerals. Mr. Tucker's
week was up, but the landlord of the George was
responsible for the statement that he had postponed his departure
indefinitely.

Matters being in this state, Mr. Clark went round to
the widow's one evening with the air of a man
who has made up his mind to decisive action. He
entered the room with a bounce and, hardly deigning to
notice the greeting of Mr. Tucker, planted himself in a
chair and surveyed him grimly. "I thought I should find
you here," he remarked.

"Well, I always am here, ain't I?" retorted Mr. Tucker,
removing his cigar and regarding him with mild surprise.

"Mr. Tucker is my friend," interposed Mrs. Bowman. "I am
the only friend he has got in Trimington. It's natural
he should be here."

Mr. Clark quailed at her glance.

"People are beginning to talk," he muttered, feebly.

"Talk?" said the widow, with an air of mystification belied
by her color. "What about?"

Mr. Clark quailed again. "About--about our wedding," he stammered.

Mr. Tucker and the widow exchanged glances. Then the former
took his cigar from his mouth and, with a hopeless
gesture threw it into the grate.

"Plenty of time to talk about that," said Mrs. Bowman,
after a pause.

"Time is going," remarked Mr. Clark. "I was thinking, if
it was agreeable to you, of putting up the banns
to-morrow."

"There--there's no hurry," was the reply.

"'Marry in haste, repent at leisure,'" quoted Mr. Tucker, gravely.

"Don't you want me to put 'em up?" demanded Mr.
Clark, turning to Mrs. Bowman.

"There's no hurry," said Mrs. Bowman again. "I--I want time
to think."

Mr. Clark rose and stood over her, and after a
vain attempt to meet his gaze she looked down at
the carpet.

"I understand," he said, loftily. "I am not blind."

"It isn't my fault," murmured the widow, drawing patterns with
her toe on the carpet. "One can't help their feelings."

Mr. Clark gave a short, hard laugh. "What about my
feelings?" he said, severely. "What about the life you have
spoiled? I couldn't have believed it of you."

"I'm sure I'm very sorry," murmured Mrs. Bowman, "and anything
that I can do I will. I never expected to
see Charles again. And it was so sudden; it took
me unawares. I hope we shall still be friends."

"Friends!" exclaimed Mr. Clark, with extraordinary vigor. "With him?"

He folded his arms and regarded the pair with a
bitter smile; Mrs. Bowman, quite unable to meet his eyes,
still gazed intently at the floor.

"You have made me the laughing-stock of Trimington," pursued Mr.
Clark. "You have wounded me in my tenderest feelings; you
have destroyed my faith in women. I shall never be
the same man again. I hope that you will never
find out what a terrible mistake you've made."

Mrs. Bowman made a noise half-way between a sniff and
a sob; Mr. Tucker's sniff was unmistakable.

"I will return your presents to-morrow," said Mr. Clark, rising.
"Good- by, forever!"

He paused at the door, but Mrs. Bowman did not
look up. A second later the front door closed and
she heard him walk rapidly away.

For some time after his departure she preserved a silence
which Mr. Tucker endeavored in vain to break. He took
a chair by her side, and at the third attempt
managed to gain possession of her hand.

"I deserved all he said," she cried, at last. "Poor
fellow, I hope he will do nothing desperate."

"No, no," said Mr. Tucker, soothingly.

"His eyes were quite wild," continued the widow. "If anything
happens to him I shall never forgive myself. I have
spoilt his life."

Mr. Tucker pressed her hand and spoke of the well-known
refining influence a hopeless passion for a good woman had
on a man. He cited his own case as an
example.

"Disappointment spoilt my life so far as worldly success goes,"
he said, softly, "but no doubt the discipline was good
for me."

Mrs. Bowman smiled faintly, and began to be a little
comforted. Conversation shifted from the future of Mr. Clark to
the past of Mr. Tucker; the widow's curiosity as to
the extent of the latter's worldly success remaining unanswered by
reason of Mr. Tucker's sudden remembrance of a bear-fight.

Their future was discussed after supper, and the advisability of
leaving Trimington considered at some length. The towns and villages
of England were at their disposal; Mr. Tucker's business, it
appeared, being independent of place. He drew a picture of
life in a bungalow with modern improvements at some seaside
town, and, the cloth having been removed, took out his
pocket-book and, extracting an old envelope, drew plans on the
back.

It was a delightful pastime and made Mrs. Bowman feel
that she was twenty and beginning life again. She toyed
with the pocket-book and complimented Mr. Tucker on his skill
as a draughtsman.

A letter or two fell out and she replaced them.
Then a small newspaper cutting, which had fluttered out with
them, met her eye.

"A little veranda with roses climbing up it," murmured Mr.
Tucker, still drawing, "and a couple of--"

His pencil was arrested by an odd, gasping noise from
the window. He looked up and saw her sitting stiffly
in her chair. Her face seemed to have swollen and
to be colored in patches; her eyes were round and
amazed.

"Aren't you well?" he inquired, rising in disorder.

Mrs. Bowman opened her lips, but no sound came from
them. Then she gave a long, shivering sigh.

"Heat of the room too much for you?" inquired the
other, anxiously.

Mrs. Bowman took another long, shivering breath. Still incapable of
speech, she took the slip of paper in her trembling
fingers and an involuntary exclamation of dismay broke from Mr.
Tucker. She dabbed fiercely at her burning eyes with her
handkerchief and read it again.

"TUCKER.--If this should meet the eye of Charles Tucker, who
knew Amelia Wyborn twenty-five years ago, he will hear of
something greatly to his advantage by communicating with N. C.,
Royal Hotel, Northtown."

Mrs. Bowman found speech at last. "N. C.--Nathaniel Clark," she
said, in broken tones. "So that is where he went
last month. Oh, what a fool I've been! Oh, what
a simple fool!"

Mr. Tucker gave a deprecatory cough. "I--I had forgotten it
was there," he said, nervously.

"Yes," breathed the widow, "I can quite believe that."

"I was going to show you later on," declared the
other, regarding her carefully. "I was, really. I couldn't bear
the idea of keeping a secret from you long."

Mrs. Bowman smiled--a terrible smile. "The audacity of the man,"
she broke out, "to stand there and lecture me on
my behavior. To talk about his spoilt life, and all
the time--"

She got up and walked about the room, angrily brushing
aside the proffered attentions of Mr. Tucker.

"Laughing-stock of Trimington, is he?" she stormed. "He shall be
more than that before I have done with him. The
wickedness of the man; the artfulness!"

"That's what I thought," said Mr. Tucker, shaking his head.
"I said to him--"

"You're as bad," said the widow, turning on him fiercely.
"All the time you two men were talking at each
other you were laughing in your sleeves at me. And
I sat there like a child taking it all in.
I've no doubt you met every night and arranged what
you were to do next day."

Mr. Tucker's lips twitched. "I would do more than that
to win you, Amelia," he said, humbly.

"You'll have to," was the grim reply. "Now I want
to hear all about this from the beginning. And don't
keep anything from me, or it'll be the worse for
you."

She sat down again and motioned him to proceed.

"When I saw the advertisement in the Northtown Chronicle," began
Mr. Tucker, in husky voice, "I danced with--"

"Never mind about that," interrupted the widow, dryly.

"I went to the hotel and saw Mr. Clark," resumed
Mr. Tucker, somewhat crestfallen. "When I heard that you were
a widow, all the old times came back to me
again. The years fell from me like a mantle. Once
again I saw myself walking with you over the footpath
to Cooper's farm; once again I felt your hand in
mine. Your voice sounded in my ears--"

"You saw Mr. Clark," the widow reminded him.

"He had heard all about our early love from you,"
said Mr. Tucker, "and as a last desperate chance for
freedom he had come down to try and hunt me
up, and induce me to take you off his hands."

Mrs. Bowman uttered a smothered exclamation.

"He tempted me for two days," said Mr. Tucker, gravely.
"The temptation was too great and I fell. Besides that,
I wanted to rescue you from the clutches of such
a man."

"Why didn't he tell me himself?" inquired the widow.

"Just what I asked him," said the other, "but he
said that you were much too fond of him to
give him up. He is not worthy of you, Amelia;
he is fickle. He has got his eye on another
lady."

"WHAT?" said the widow, with sudden loudness.

Mr. Tucker nodded mournfully. "Miss Hackbutt," he said, slowly. "I
saw her the other day, and what he can see
in her I can't think."

"Miss Hackbutt?" repeated the widow in a smothered voice. "Miss--"
She got up and began to pace the room again.

"He must be blind," said Mr. Tucker, positively.

Mrs. Bowman stopped suddenly and stood regarding him. There was
a light in her eye which made him feel anything
but comfortable. He was glad when she transferred her gaze
to the clock. She looked at it so long that
he murmured something about going.

"Good-by," she said.

Mr. Tucker began to repeat his excuses, but she interrupted
him. "Not now," she said, decidedly. "I'm tired. Good-night."

Mr. Tucker pressed her hand. "Good-night," he said, tenderly. "I
am afraid the excitement has been too much for you.
May I come round at the usual time to-morrow?"

"Yes," said the widow.

She took the advertisement from the table and, folding it
carefully, placed it in her purse. Mr. Tucker withdrew as
she looked up.

He walked back to the "George" deep in thought, and
over a couple of pipes in bed thought over the
events of the evening. He fell asleep at last and
dreamed that he and Miss Hackbutt were being united in
the bonds of holy matrimony by the Rev. Nathaniel Clark.

The vague misgivings of the previous night disappeared in the
morning sunshine. He shaved carefully and spent some time in
the selection of a tie.

Over an excellent breakfast he arranged further explanations and excuses
for the appeasement of Mrs. Bowman.

He was still engaged on the task when he started
to call on her. Half- way to the house he
arrived at the conclusion that he was looking too cheerful.
His face took on an expression of deep seriousness, only
to give way the next moment to one of the
blankest amazement. In front of him, and approaching with faltering
steps, was Mr. Clark, and leaning trustfully on his arm
the comfortable figure of Mrs. Bowman. Her brow was unruffled
and her lips smiling.

"Beautiful morning," she said, pleasantly, as they met.

"Lovely!" murmured the wondering Mr. Tucker, trying, but in vain,
to catch the eye of Mr. Clark.

"I have been paying an early visit," said the widow,
still smiling. "I surprised you, didn't I, Nathaniel?"

"You did," said Mr. Clark, in an unearthly voice.

"We got talking about last night," continued the widow, "and
Nathaniel started pleading with me to give him another chance.
I suppose that I am softhearted, but he was so
miserable--You were never so miserable in your life before, were
you, Nathaniel?"

"Never," said Mr. Clark, in the same strange voice.

"He was so wretched that at last I gave way,"
said Mrs. Bowman, with a simper. "Poor fellow, it was
such a shock to him that he hasn't got back
his cheerfulness yet."

Mr. Tucker said, "Indeed!"

"He'll be all right soon," said Mrs. Bowman, in confidential
tones. "We are on the way to put our banns
up, and once that is done he will feel safe.
You are not really afraid of losing me again, are
you, Nathaniel?"

Mr. Clark shook his head, and, meeting the eye of
Mr. Tucker in the process, favored him with a glance
of such utter venom that the latter was almost startled.

"Good-by, Mr. Tucker," said the widow, holding out her hand.
"Nathaniel did think of inviting you to come to my
wedding, but perhaps it is best not. However, if I
alter my mind, I will get him to advertise for
you again. Good-by."

She placed her arm in Mr. Clark's again, and led
him slowly away. Mr. Tucker stood watching them for some
time, and then, with a glance in the direction of
the "George," where he had left a very small portmanteau,
he did a hasty sum in comparative values and made
his way to the railway-station.