A faint draught from the hills found its way through
the wide-flung door as the sun went down. It fluttered
the papers on the table, and stirred a cartoon upon
the wall with a dry rustling as of wind in
corn.

The man who sat at the table turned his face
as it were mechanically towards that blessed breath from the
snows. His chin was propped on his hand. He seemed
to be waiting.

The light failed very quickly, and he presently reached out
and drew a reading-lamp towards him. The flame he kindled
flickered upward, throwing weird shadows upon his lean, brown face,
making the sunken hollows of his eyes look cavernous.

He turned the light away so that it streamed upon
the open doorway. Then he resumed his former position of
sphinx-like waiting, his chin upon his hand.

Half an hour passed. The day was dead. Beyond the
radius of the lamp there hung a pall of thick
darkness--a fearful, clinging darkness that seemed to wrap the whole
earth. The heat was intense, unstirred by any breeze. Only
now and then the cartoon on the wall moved as
if at the touch of ghostly fingers, and each time
there came that mocking whisper that was like wind in
corn.

At length there sounded through the night the dull throbbing
of a horse's feet, and the man who sat waiting
raised his head. A gleam of expectancy shone in his
sombre eyes. Some of the rigidity went out of his
attitude.

Nearer came the hoofs and nearer yet, and with them,
mingling rhythmically, a tenor voice that sang.

As it reached him the man at the table pulled
out a drawer with a sharp jerk. His hand sought
something within it, but his eyes never left the curtain
of darkness that the open doorway framed.

Slowly, very slowly at last, he withdrew his hand empty;
but he only partially closed the drawer.

The voice without was nearer now, was close at hand.
The horse's hoofs had ceased to sound. There came the
ring of spurred heels without, a man's hand tapped upon
the doorpost, a man's figure showed suddenly against the darkness.

"Hallo, Conyers! Still in the land of the living? Ye
gods, what a fiendish night! Many thanks for the beacon!
It's kept me straight for more than half the way."

He entered carelessly, the lamplight full upon him--a handsome, straight-limbed
young Hercules--tossed down his riding-whip, and looked round for a
drink.

"Here you are!" said Conyers, turning the rays of the
lamp full upon some glasses on the table.

"Ah, good! I'm as dry as a smoked herring. You
must drink too, though. Yes, I insist. I have a
toast to propose, so be sociable for once. What have
you got in that drawer?"

Conyers locked the drawer abruptly, and jerked out the key.

"What do you want to know for?"

His visitor grinned boyishly.

"Don't be bashful, old chap! I always guessed you kept
her there. We'll drink her health, too, in a minute.
But first of all"--he was splashing soda-water impetuously out of
a syphon as he spoke--"first of all--quite ready, I say?
It's a grand occasion--here's to the best of good fellows,
that genius, that inventor of guns, John Conyers! Old chap,
your fortune's made. Here's to it! Hip--hip--hooray!"

His shout was like the blare of a bull. Conyers
rose, crossed to the door, and closed it.

Returning, he halted by his visitor's side, and shook him
by the shoulder.

"Stop rotting, Palliser!" he said rather shortly.

Young Palliser wheeled with a gigantic laugh, and seized him
by the arms.

"You old fool, Jack! Can't you see I'm in earnest?
Drink, man, drink, and I'll tell you all about it.
That gun of yours is going to be an enormous
success--stupendous--greater even than I hoped. It's true, by the powers!
Don't look so dazed. All comes to those who wait,
don't you know. I always told you so."

"To be sure, so you did." The man's words came
jerkily. They had an odd, detached sound, almost as though
he were speaking in his sleep. He turned away from
Palliser, and took up his untouched glass.

But the next instant it slipped through his fingers, and
crashed upon the table edge. The spilt liquid streamed across
the floor.

Palliser stared for an instant, then thrust forward his own
glass.

"Steady does it, old boy! Try both hands for a
change. It's this infernal heat."

He turned with the words, and picked up a paper
from the table, frowning over it absently, and whistling below
his breath.

When he finally looked round again his face cleared.

"Ah, that's better! Sit down, and we'll talk. By Jove,
isn't it colossal? They told me over at the fort
that I was a fool to come across to-night. But
I simply couldn't keep you waiting another night. Besides, I
knew you would expect me."

Conyers' grim face softened a little. He could scarcely have
said how he had ever come to be the chosen
friend of young Hugh Palliser. The intimacy had been none
of his seeking.

They had met at the club on the occasion of
one of his rare appearances there, and the younger man,
whose sociable habit it was to know everyone, had scraped
acquaintance with him.

No one knew much about Conyers. He was not fond
of society, and, as a natural consequence, society was not
fond of him. He occupied the humble position of a
subordinate clerk in an engineer's office. The work was hard,
but it did not bring him prosperity. He was one
of those men who go silently on week after week,
year after year, till their very existence comes almost to
be overlooked by those about them. He never seemed to
suffer as other men suffered from the scorching heat of
that tropical corner of the Indian Empire. He was always
there, whatever happened to the rest of the world; but
he never pushed himself forward. He seemed to lack ambition.
There were even some who said he lacked brains as
well.

But Palliser was not of these. His quick eyes had
detected at a glance something that others had never taken
the trouble to discover. From the very beginning he had
been aware of a force that contained itself in this
silent man. He had become interested, scarcely knowing why; and,
having at length overcome the prickly hedge of reserve which
was at first opposed to his advances, he had entered
the private place which it defended, and found within--what he
certainly had not expected to find--a genius.

It was nearly three months now since Conyers, in a
moment of unusual expansion, had laid before him the invention
at which he had been working for so many silent
years. The thing even then, though complete in all essentials,
had lacked finish, and this final touch young Palliser, himself
a gunner with a positive passion for guns, had been
able to supply. He had seen the value of the
invention and had given it his ardent support. He had,
moreover, friends in high places, and could obtain a fair
and thorough investigation of the idea.

This he had accomplished, with a result that had transcended
his high hopes, on his friend's behalf; and he now
proceeded to pour out his information with an accompanying stream
of congratulation, to which Conyers sat and listened with scarcely
the movement of an eyelid.

Hugh Palliser found his impassivity by no means disappointing. He
was used to it. He had even expected it. That
momentary unsteadiness on Conyers' part had astonished him far more.

Concluding his narration he laid the official correspondence before him,
and got up to open the door. The night was
black and terrible, the heat came in overwhelming puffs, as
though blown from a blast furnace. He leaned against the
doorpost and wiped his forehead. The oppression of the atmosphere
was like a tangible, crushing weight. Behind him the paper
on the wall rustled vaguely, but there was no other
sound. After several minutes he turned briskly back again into
the room, whistling a sentimental ditty below his breath.

"Well, old chap, it was worth waiting for, eh? And
now, I suppose, you'll be making a bee-line for home,
you lucky beggar. I shan't be long after you, that's
one comfort. Pity we can't go together. I suppose you
can't wait till the winter."

"No, my boy. I'm afraid I can't." Conyers spoke with
a faint smile, his eyes still fixed upon the blue
official paper that held his destiny. "I'm going home forthwith,
and be damned to everything and everybody--except you. It's an
understood thing, you know, Palliser, that we are partners in
this deal."

"Oh, rot!" exclaimed Palliser impetuously. "I don't agree to that.
I did nothing but polish the thing up. You'd have
done it yourself if I hadn't."

"In the course of a few more years," put in
Conyers drily.

"Rot!" said Palliser again. "Besides, I don't want any pelf.
I've quite as much as is good for me, more
than I want. That's why I'm going to get married.
You'll be going the same way yourself now, I suppose?"

"You have no reason whatever for thinking so," responded Conyers.

Palliser laughed lightheartedly and sat down on the table. "Oh,
haven't I? What about that mysterious locked drawer of yours?
Don't be shy, I say! You had it open when
I came in. Show her to me like a good
chap! I won't tell a soul."

"That's not where I keep my love-tokens," said Conyers, with
a grim twist of the mouth that was not a
smile.

"What then?" asked Palliser eagerly. "Not another invention?"

"No." Conyers inserted the key in the lock again, turned
it, and pulled open the drawer. "See for yourself as
you are so anxious."

Palliser leaned across the table and looked. The next instant
his glance flashed upwards, and their eyes met.

There was a sharply-defined pause. Then, "You'd never be fool
enough for that, Jack!" ejaculated Palliser, with vehemence.

"I'm fool enough for anything," said Conyers, with his cynical
smile.

"But you wouldn't," the other protested almost incoherently. "A fellow
like you--I don't believe it!"

"It's loaded," observed Conyers quietly. "No, leave it alone, Hugh!
It can remain so for the present. There is not
the smallest danger of its going off--or I shouldn't have
shown it to you."

He closed the drawer again, looking steadily into Hugh Palliser's
face.

"I've had it by me for years," he said, "just
in case the Fates should have one more trick in
store for me. But apparently they haven't, though it's never
safe to assume anything."

"Oh, don't talk like an idiot!" broke in Palliser heatedly.
"I've no patience with that sort of thing. Do you
expect me to believe that a fellow like you--a fellow
who knows how to wait for his luck--would give way
to a cowardly impulse and destroy himself all in a
moment because things didn't go quite straight? Man alive! I
know you better than that; or if I don't, I've
never known you at all."

"Ah! Perhaps not!" said Conyers.

Once more he turned the key and withdrew it. He
pushed back his chair so that his face was in
shadow.

"You don't know everything, you know, Hugh," he said.

"Have a smoke," said Palliser, "and tell me what you
are driving at."

He threw himself into a bamboo chair by the open
door, the light streaming full upon him, revealing in every
line of him the arrogant splendour of his youth. He
looked like a young Greek god with the world at
his feet.

Conyers surveyed him with his faint, cynical smile. "No," he
said, "you certainly don't know everything, my son. You never
have come a cropper in your life."

"Haven't I, though?" Hugh sat up, eager to refute this
criticism. "That's all you know about it. I suppose you
think you have had the monopoly of hard knocks. Most
people do."

"I am not like most people," Conyers asserted deliberately. "But
you needn't tell me that you have ever been right
under, my boy. For you never have."

"Depends what you call going under," protested Palliser. "I've been
down a good many times, Heaven knows. And I've had
to wait--as you have--all the best years of my life."

"Your best years are to come," rejoined Conyers. "Mine are
over."

"Oh, rot, man! Rot--rot--rot! Why, you are just coming into
your own! Have another drink and give me the toast
of your heart!" Hugh Palliser sprang impulsively to his feet.
"Let me mix it! You can't--you shan't be melancholy to-night
of all nights."

But Conyers stayed his hand.

"Only one more drink to-night, boy!" he said. "And that
not yet. Sit down and smoke. I'm not melancholy, but
I can't rejoice prematurely. It's not my way."

"Prematurely!" echoed Hugh, pointing to the official envelope.

"Yes, prematurely," Conyers repeated. "I may be as rich as
Croesus, and yet not win my heart's desire."

"Oh, I know that," said Hugh quickly. "I've been through
it myself. It's infernal to have everything else under the
sun and yet to lack the one thing--the one essential--the
one woman."

He sat down again, abruptly thoughtful. Conyers smoked silently, with
his face in the shadow.

Suddenly Hugh looked across at him.

"You think I'm too much of an infant to understand,"
he said. "I'm nearly thirty, but that's a detail."

"I'm forty-five," said Conyers.

"Well, well!" Hugh frowned impatiently. "It's a detail, as I
said before. Who cares for a year more or less?"

"Which means," observed Conyers, with his dry smile, "that the
one woman is older than you are."

"She is," Palliser admitted recklessly. "She is five years older.
But what of it? Who cares? We were made for
each other. What earthly difference does it make?"

"It's no one's business but your own," remarked Conyers through
a haze of smoke.

"Of course it isn't. It never has been." Hugh yet
sounded in some fashion indignant. "There never was any other
possibility for me after I met her. I waited for
her six mortal years. I'd have waited all my life.
But she gave in at last. I think she realized
that it was sheer waste of time to go on."

"What was she waiting for?" The question came with a
certain weariness of intonation, as though the speaker were somewhat
bored; but Hugh Palliser was too engrossed to notice.

He stretched his arms wide with a swift and passionate
gesture.

"She was waiting for a scamp," he declared.

"It is maddening to think of--the sweetest woman on earth,
Conyers, wasting her spring and her summer over a myth,
an illusion. It was an affair of fifteen years ago.
The fellow came to grief and disappointed her. She told
me all about it on the day she promised to
marry me. I believe her heart was nearly broken at
the time, but she has got over it--thank Heaven!--at last.
Poor Damaris! My Damaris!"

He ceased to speak, and a dull roar of thunder
came out of the night like the voice of a
giant in anguish.

Hugh began to smoke, still busy with his thoughts.

"Yes," he said presently, "I believe she would actually have
waited all her life for the fellow if he had
asked it of her. Luckily he didn't go so far
as that. He was utterly unworthy of her. I think
she sees it now. His father was imprisoned for forgery,
and no doubt he was in the know, though it
couldn't be brought home to him. He was ruined, of
course, and he disappeared, just dropped out, when the crash
came. He had been on the verge of proposing to
her immediately before. And she would have had him too.
She cared."

He sent a cloud of smoke upwards with savage vigour.

"It's damnable to think of her suffering for a worthless
brute like that!" he exclaimed. "She had such faith in
him too. Year after year she was expecting him to
go back to her, and she kept me at arm's
length, till at last she came to see that both
our lives were being sacrificed to a miserable dream. Well,
it's my innings now, anyway. And we are going to
be superbly happy to make up for it."

Again he flung out his arms with a wide gesture,
and again out of the night there came a long
roll of thunder that was like the menace of a
tortured thing. A flicker of lightning gleamed through the open
door for a moment, and Conyers' dark face was made
visible. He had ceased to smoke, and was staring with
fixed, inscrutable eyes into the darkness. He did not flinch
from the lightning; it was as if he did not
see it.

"What would she do, I wonder, if the prodigal returned,"
he said quietly. "Would she be glad--or sorry?"

"He never will," returned Hugh quickly. "He never can--after fifteen
years. Think of it! Besides--she wouldn't have him if he
did."

"Women are proverbially faithful," remarked Conyers cynically.

"She will stick to me now," Hugh returned with confidence.
"The other fellow is probably dead. In any case, he
has no shadow of a right over her. He never
even asked her to wait for him."

"Possibly he thought that she would wait without being asked,"
said Conyers, still cynical.

"Well, she has ceased to care for him now," asserted
Hugh. "She told me so herself."

The man opposite shifted his position ever so slightly. "And
you are satisfied with that?" he said.

"Of course I am. Why not?" There was almost a
challenge in Hugh's voice.

"And if he came back?" persisted the other. "You would
still be satisfied?"

Hugh sprang to his feet with a movement of fierce
impatience. "I believe I should shoot him!" he said vindictively.
He looked like a splendid wild animal suddenly awakened. "I
tell you, Conyers," he declared passionately, "I could kill him
with my hands if he came between us now."

Conyers, his chin on his hand, looked him up and
down as though appraising his strength.

Suddenly he sat bolt upright and spoke--spoke briefly, sternly, harshly,
as a man speaks in the presence of his enemy.
At the same instant a frightful crash of thunder swept
the words away as though they had never been uttered.

In the absolute pandemonium of sound that followed, Hugh Palliser,
with a face gone suddenly white, went over to his
friend and stood behind him, his hands upon his shoulders.

But Conyers sat quite motionless, staring forth at the leaping
lightning, rigid, sphinx-like. He did not seem aware of the
man behind him, till, as the uproar began to subside,
Hugh bent and spoke.

"Do you know, old chap, I'm scared!" he said, with
a faint, shamed laugh. "I feel as if there were
devils abroad. Speak to me, will you, and tell me
I'm a fool!"

"You are," said Conyers, without turning.

"That lightning is too much for my nerves," said Hugh
uneasily. "It's almost red. What was it you said just
now? I couldn't hear a word."

"It doesn't matter," said Conyers.

"But what was it? I want to know."

The gleam in the fixed eyes leaped to sudden terrible
flame, shone hotly for a few seconds, then died utterly
away. "I don't remember," said Conyers quietly. "It couldn't have
been anything of importance. Have a drink! You will have
to be getting back as soon as this is over."

Hugh helped himself with a hand that was not altogether
steady. There had come a lull in the tempest. The
cartoon on the wall was fluttering like a caged thing.
He glanced at it, then looked at it closely. It
was a reproduction of Dore's picture of Satan falling from
heaven.

"It isn't meant for you surely!" he said.

Conyers laughed and got to his feet. "It isn't much
like me, is it?"

Hugh looked at him uncertainly. "I never noticed it before.
It might have been you years ago."

"Ah, perhaps," said Conyers. "Why don't you drink? I thought
you were going to give me a toast."

Hugh's mood changed magically. He raised his glass high. "Here's
to your eternal welfare, dear fellow! I drink to your
heart's desire."

Conyers waited till Hugh had drained his glass before he
lifted his own.

Then, "I drink to the one woman," he said, and
emptied it at a draught.

* * * * *

The storm was over, and a horse's feet clattered away
into the darkness, mingling rhythmically with a cheery tenor voice.

In the room with the open door a man's figure
stood for a long while motionless.

When he moved at length it was to open the
locked drawer of the writing-table. His right hand felt within
it, closed upon something that lay there; and then he
paused.

Several minutes crawled away.

From afar there came the long rumble of thunder. But
it was not this that he heard as he stood
wrestling with the fiercest temptation he had ever known.

Stiffly at last he stooped, peered into the drawer, finally
closed it with an unfaltering hand. The struggle was over.

"For your sake, Damaris!" he said aloud, and he spoke
without cynicism. "I should know how to wait by now--even
for death--which is all I have to wait for."

And with that he pulled the fluttering paper from the
wall, crushed it in his hand, and went out heavily
into the night.