The Reentry

ON A SUNNY DAY in September, two women meet on
the Ponte Sisto and embrace. It's been a year since
they've seen each other. They step over the low rusty
chain that blocks traffic on the bridge. Lovers affix padlocks
to the links; distracted pedestrians tend to trip over them.
It's past two in the afternoon, and both women are
hungry.

One of them, raised close to the bridge, is in
mourning. Her father died a few weeks before, and she's
also grieving for her dying marriage. She's a thin, short
woman with blond hair pulled back, big green eyes, and
an earlobe studded with diamonds and small gold hoops.

The other woman is a university professor. She has darker
hair and darker skin and she's taller than her friend.
At the moment, she's also happier. She's just celebrated her
birthday at the sea, so she's tanned and feels rejuvenated.
She's been meaning to meet up with her friend who's
going through a hard time, who's facing a separation and
the loss of her father.

"When did you get back?" she asks, linking elbows with
the woman in mourning as they walk.

"About ten days ago. What about you?"

"Day before yesterday."

The two women, who both have children around the same
age, met one another some years ago in the playground
at Piazza San Cosimato. When they both lived in Rome
they would often have lunch together in a trattoria and
talk for hours.

But for the past two years the woman in mourning,
the one who's returned for her father's funeral, has been
living in another city, in a country not far from
Italy. She went to live there with her two children
but without her husband, who had to stay on in
Rome for his job, though back then, things between them
were still relatively smooth. The woman was forty-six and wanted
a change of scenery; she was tired of the run-down
city she'd been born in.

The professor, too, has recently returned to Rome, not to
face a loss but to enjoy a year on sabbatical
with her family. She knows the city well and loves
it. She visits often to conduct research or to attend
conferences, either on her own or with her family, at
times for lengthy stays. Ancient Roman history is her field.

Today the woman in mourning has booked a table at
a trattoria she's particularly fond of. It's one of the
few, she says, that's held out—stubbornly and marvelously—against the flow
of time. "It'll be a chance to show you something
new," she says. "Even though my city is your city
by now."

In order to reach the trattoria they walk past the
elegant palazzo where the parents of the woman in mourning
lived for the greater part of the year. "It's so
strange to think that he'll never go back there," she
says now, referring to her father. He was a journalist
who spoke five languages and traveled the world. In the
summers her parents would decamp to the mountains, where it
was cooler. Her father, who was over ninety, had died
in the same bed in the mountains in which he'd
been born. The city house was always empty in the
summers, but now it held a different sort of emptiness.

The woman in mourning tells her friend that, earlier in
the day, she'd gone in quickly to fetch a few
things and that she'd been surrounded, as a result, by
paintings, books, and other objects belonging to her father. Needless
to say, it had shaken her.

"Were you with him when he passed away?" the professor
asks.

"I was on the plane, I didn't make it in
time."

The trattoria is on a street without a sidewalk in
a warren-like neighborhood that's always crowded. It's the same part
of the city where, years ago, the professor had rented
an apartment for the summer, on the very same street
where the woman in mourning had grown up. The two
women liked to remark on this coincidence: the fact that
they'd both lived on the same street in different stages
of life, under different circumstances.

When they reach the trattoria they nearly walk by it;
the façade is discreet to the point of anonymity. It
looks nothing like the other trattorie nearby, always thronged with
tourists. For example, it looks nothing like the trattoria that
had so warmly welcomed the professor and her family every
evening that first summer. That one had bottles of wine
in the window and tattered white umbrellas over the tables
outside, on a sloping piazza, arranged against a peeling wall.
Now and then the two brothers who ran the place
would set a big bottle of Averna on the table
before bringing the bill.

The trattoria they enter today looks restrained by comparison, with
two glass doors that correspond to two different buildings. One
building is covered in bricks and the other has a
smooth façade painted in large squares of pink and pale
orange. One of the two doors, which is closed, flanks
the entrance. The other serves as a window. They're both
made of frosted glass so that no one walking by
can see inside. The two women have to ring a
bell to be admitted, and since the entrance is set
off at an angle one can barely glimpse the interior
from the street.

Once inside, the woman in mourning greets the padrona: a
thickset woman with thin-framed glasses and short white hair. Then
she recognizes and greets a man sitting at a table
in the corner with a boy who looks to be
about six years old. From their affectionate exchange the professor
understands that he's an old friend, and that he, too,
grew up a stone's throw from this trattoria.

"Sorry to sit with my back to you," the woman
in mourning says to the man as she takes her
seat.

"Let me sit there," her friend suggests, and so they
switch places and rest their purses on the empty chair
between them.

The trattoria is shaped like an L. The white walls,
the black molding, and the pale marble wainscoting make it
feel like the spare, paradoxically immaculate interior of a butcher
shop. The woman in mourning is facing her old friend
sitting in the corner and the professor is facing a
table of men, all well dressed, who probably work in
the same office. It's impossible to see what's behind the
corner.

On the table there's a menu in a transparent plastic
sleeve: a white sheet of paper with a typewritten list
of all the dishes. It sits there untouched; neither of
the women bothers to look at it.

The padrona, who is also the waitress and the cook,
tells them what there is to eat. She has burly
arms and wears an apron over a white cotton shirt
with short sleeves. The woman in mourning asks for vegetables
to start, and then a plate of pasta.

"And what shall we bring out for la moretta?" the
padrona asks briskly, without looking directly at the professor.

After a moment she replies, "I'll have the same." But
she feels nettled, as if the nearly weightless but prickly
legs of an insect were to rest briefly on the
back of her hand.

"What exactly does that mean, when people say la moretta?"
the professor asks.

"Oh, it's nothing, people use it to describe anyone with
dark hair," says the woman in mourning, aware that her
friend looks vaguely upset.

Now that they're seated the professor notices that her friend
looks exhausted.

"Are you sleeping?"

"Not much."

"Eating?"

"I will today. The food here is always good."

At that very moment the padrona brings out a bottle
of water and a basket with just two slices of
bread. Then she brings them some boiled greens, dark and
shiny.

"Here you go, sweetheart," she says to the woman in
mourning. And to the other woman: "And the same for
the pretty lady."

The new epithet, delivered offhandedly, the tone a bit harsh,
also troubles the professor.

"How are the kids coping through all this?" she asks
her grieving friend. Each of them has one boy and
one girl.

"They've figured it out by now. I left them in
the mountains with my mother. Here, I'll show you." The
professor, too, searches for her cell phone in her purse.

"Your daughter looks just like you," the woman in mourning
observes.

"Yours, on the other hand, looks like her father," her
friend says. Then she asks, gently: "Is he still with
that colleague of his?"

"So I gather. It is what it is."

"How did you find out?"

"I think I already knew, or at least I sensed
something. Maybe that's why I wanted to leave Rome. Because
something already felt off-kilter."

"So you did the right thing."

"Back then I didn't want to face it. I thought
I'd do what you did—go discover a new place with
my children. But that move only speeded up a dissolving
marriage."

The woman in mourning says she's already spoken to a
lawyer, but given that she now lives in another city
with her children, it's a complicated situation.

She interrupts herself to say goodbye to her old friend,
who's finished his lunch.

"Isn't the food here delicious?" she asks the boy. "Imagine,
I used to come here when I was your age.
Just like you, for lunch, with my father."

The boy, timid, looks back at her wide-eyed without saying
anything.

At that moment the padrona returns with the pasta.

"You're talking too much, you haven't finished your vegetables," she
says, kindly scolding the woman in mourning.

This time there's no epithet for the professor.

The pasta, piping hot, is bland but satisfying.

As they're eating, the cell phone of the woman in
mourning starts ringing.

"I'm at lunch with a friend," she says, then asks
the person who's called to pass by the trattoria. She
explains that it's a neighbor of her parents. He needs
to give her the mail that's been piling up at
their apartment, including several telegrams that have arrived since her
father's death.

A few minutes later, the neighbor arrives with a big
black envelope. He kisses the woman in mourning and gives
the professor a firm handshake.

"Have a seat," the woman in mourning says. "Would you
like a coffee?"

"No, thanks. Here's the mail."

They talk about her father, and the woman in mourning
sums up his last days, his deathbed wishes, the funeral.

"He went just as he would have wished," she says
sadly, without shedding a tear.

"He was an exceptional man," the neighbor says. "I always
admired his thirst for travel, for other worlds. We'll miss
him."

He says goodbye to the women and leaves. The men
at the nearby table are also standing up to go.
A few glance at the professor, curious.

"And you, are you happy to be back in this
city?" the woman in mourning asks her friend.

"Returning to Rome is always wonderful, and never the same,"
she replies. Then she adds: "It's the only place where
I really feel at home."

As she says this, however, she fears that her relationship
with the city is actually quite tenuous. In the end,
she has no personal link to the history she studies,
nor will she ever experience the comfort of having lunch
in a trusted restaurant that forms part of her family's
history, that holds within it memories of countless lunches between
father and daughter, a space that soothes her friend even
after such an immense loss.

Someone has turned off a few lights, so that the
interior of the trattoria is darker now, as if a
rainstorm is about to pass through.

"Shall we leave?" the woman in mourning suggests.

"Let's go."

"Let me run to the bathroom."

"Okay, I'll go after you."

Alone at the table, the professor studies the tablecloth, the
design of the trattoria's logo, the neglected menu. She wonders
if her family would enjoy the place. But then she
asks herself if the padrona would call her daughter, who
resembles her, a moretta. Regardless, she thinks that it's good
to live in a place that's both familiar and full
of secrets, with discoveries that reveal themselves only slowly and
by chance.

"It's like we're in their home," the woman in mourning
says, amused, when she returns to the table.

The professor gets up to find the bathroom. Turning the
corner, she realizes that, in addition to the padrona, there's
another woman, slightly younger, at the cash register, with black
hair that looks dyed, and that there is also a
little girl, maybe six or seven, who's been silent all
this time. The two women might be sisters, and the
girl one of their granddaughters. They keep a distracted eye
on the girl, who seems idle in that cramped space.

"Is this the bathroom?" the professor asks, pointing to a
door with nothing written on it.

The younger of the two women confirms, a bit drily,
that it is.

Inside the bathroom, the professor reflects on her friend's observation—that
it's like being in someone's home. It's just an ordinary
bathroom in a trattoria. And yet she feels ill at
ease and in the way.

When she steps out, she sees the little girl seated
on the floor with her legs splayed. As a result,
she can't get by. She waits a few seconds for
the girl to move. But the girl just sits there,
frozen. The padrona and the woman at the register don't
tell her to get up. They don't say anything. And
so the professor asks the girl:

"May I?"

The girl neither replies nor reacts, behaving as if she
hasn't heard. At this point the professor cautiously steps over
one of the girl's bare legs so that she can
go back to the table.

As soon as she's crossed the small barrier of flesh
and blood she hears the girl whisper some sort of
complaint, but she can't quite make out the words. She
makes sense of it from the padrona's reply:

"You're the one who needs to move aside for her."

Though she says this, it's in that same restrained, offhanded
way, so that the professor feels ill at ease again.

"Let's ask for the check," the woman in mourning says
when she sees her friend.

They leave the table and proceed to pay. The little
girl is in the same spot, her stiff legs still
splayed.

When the woman in mourning approaches, she immediately moves one
of her legs to let her pass.

But when the professor appears, the girl blocks her way
again.

Then she says to the two who appear to be
sisters, pointing to the woman in mourning, who stands in
front, "She's the nice one."

No one says anything.

The girl insists, "She's nicer than the other one."

The padrona replies, calmly: "All women are nice, and you're
a little brat."

"But she's the nice one," the girl repeats, agitated. "I
don't like the other one."

"You're right, my friend is very nice," the professor says
lightly, even as she feels her spirits sink. Then, hoping
to break up the increasingly rigid atmosphere with some humor,
she adds, "And why is it that you don't like
me?"

But the child, like the padrona, refuses to speak directly
to the professor, just as she refused to move her
leg. Instead she says, to the padrona and to the
woman at the cash register: "I don't like the other
one. She's bad, very bad."

This snuffs out the professor's feeble attempt to win her
over.

The woman in mourning, who has her back to the
girl, is absorbed by the check and doesn't pay attention.
The padrona and the woman at the cash register are
still mute. No one tells the girl to be quiet
or to apologize.

The woman in mourning shows her friend the check. Her
friend pulls out some money, quietly, mechanically, from her wallet.
It's a sum that can't be split evenly, and the
change is also uneven, and the professor ends up paying
slightly more, the woman in mourning slightly less.

"I owe you five," says the woman in mourning.

"Don't worry, you'll get it next time," her friend replies.

The little girl keeps saying that the woman in mourning
is nice and that the professor is bad. She repeats
it as if it were some sort of inane, sinister
nursery rhyme until finally the woman at the cash register
snaps: "Now get up, come on, I'm taking you back
to your mother."

"Thank you, arrivederci," the woman in mourning says to the
woman at the cash register.

"Goodbye, Dottoressa," she replies.

"Say hello to your mother," the padrona adds.

"Can you explain what just happened in there?" the professor
asks, once they're outside the trattoria. She's sweating, but not
from the heat.

"Let it go, that little girl was rude."

"But she was more than that. She was full of
rage."

"Forget about it. I'm sorry."

"I'm sorry, too. You wanted to take me there, but
I'll never go back again."

"No, you won't."

They cross the bridge together, stepping over the first chain
weighted down with forgotten promises, then the second. They continue
to replay the episode in the trattoria: the little girl's
unpunished conviction and the stubborn silence of both women. On
the other side of the bridge, they hug each other.

"Ciao, ciccia. We'll talk soon."

"Goodbye, my dear, you be well."

They let go, but the levity of their old goodbyes
is missing.

After a few minutes, the professor reaches Piazza San Cosimato
and rests on a dirty, boiling-hot bench. Her lunch sits
in her stomach like a rock. She doesn't just feel
bad and embittered; she's humiliated, gripped by a sadness she
can't control.

The woman in mourning, meanwhile, crosses the river and sits
on another bench in the shade, where she sorts through
her parents' mail and reads some postcards written to her
dead father, consoling herself with the condolences of loved ones,
sent from near and far.