Lark Street

An impossible hand punched my earlobe. An unborn fetus, aborted
the day before, was standing at my bedside. His name
was Jackie Gunner.

"So, I guess you didn't have the balls?" Jackie Gunner
said. His voice was a stern squeak. My eyelids rolled
open. He was a tiny silhouette on the end of
my pillow. Smaller than a field mouse.

"Well, say something, Dad." He said Dad the way some
people say cunt. "Do you even feel bad?"

"Yeah," I said. "I feel real bad."

"I feel real bad," Jackie Gunner repeated. "Is real bad
a hole big enough to fit our lives in?"

"Our?" I said.

"It's a metaphor, Daddy," said a new voice, this one
shy, charming even. A second tiny fetus climbed up my
comforter onto my bed. Her name, I knew, was Jamie
Lou.

"Phew," Jamie Lou said at the summit, which was up
near my pillow. She plopped down so she was sitting
beside Jackie Gunner. A tiny shadow beside a tiny shadow.
Twins, I thought.

"I'm sor—" I began.

"Don't," Jackie Gunner said. "Just don't.

"So you didn't have the balls, huh?" he repeated while
thrusting and grabbing the space between his tiny, tiny legs.
Legs that would never grow big enough to kick things
like bottle caps, or soccer balls, or other people. "I
think I have more balls than you and I'm still,
like, a trimester from genitalia." Here he paused as if
in reflection. "What are balls like?"

Jamie giggled.

I didn't know how to answer him. "Uh, they .
. . well . . ." My voice still dragged
from sleep.

"Whatever," Jackie Gunner said. "You wouldn't know. You didn't have
the cojones to look."

"Be nice to Daddy," Jamie Lou said. Jackie Gunner grunted.
Then he turned his tiny head and sort of looked
at me sideways. "Look at me, Dad."

The night before, my girlfriend, Jaclyn, had taken a series
of pills that had pushed Jackie Gunner and Jamie Lou
out of her. When we found out it was an
option, the take-home method had seemed like the way to
go. We'd imagined it'd be more humane. The pamphlets instructed
us—her—to tuck four pills in the space between her lip
and gums. That way they would dissolve, and then the
chemicals would find her bloodstream without the detour of her
stomach. There would be vomiting. The pamphlet made that clear.

Jaclyn cried on the toilet. I held her hand in
the beginning. Then she told me to leave. So I
did. I listened from the living room.

"It's okay, Daddy," said Jamie Lou. At this, Jackie Gunner
turned and kicked Jamie Lou on the side of the
head. "Ouch," she said.

"Hey," I said, feeling like it wasn't the time for
violence.

"Shut it. And it's not okay," Jackie Gunner said. "He
won't even look at us."

"He's scared," said Jamie Lou, rising. She brought her head
close to Jackie Gunner's head and kissed his temple.

"I don't care," said Jackie Gunner, ignoring the kiss.

After about an hour of the most honest pain I
can remember hearing, Jaclyn said something I understood. "Oh, my
God, it's in my—oh, my God," and I knew they'd
been released. I thought I might try to hold her
hand again then. But I could not. I could not
look into that bathroom.

That was only about eight hours before Jackie Gunner and
Jamie Lou appeared in my room.

"Look at me, Dad!" Jackie Gunner yelled.

I got up carefully, trying not to squish them or
bounce the bed and send them flying. I flipped on
the light switch.

Their heads were too big for their tiny bodies, which
were each as thin as a pencil and a fleshy
pink. Their skin was shriveled and translucent. I could see
through their skulls to pea-size gray brains. Jackie Gunner's eyes
were closed, but behind one of his eyelids there was
just an empty socket. Jamie Lou had both her eyes,
and she seemed to have working eyelids, too. Their hands
and feet were partially webbed, and their scrawny legs shouldn't
have been able to support their bodies. They wore a
glaze of bright blood.

"Don't smile at me, Dad," Jackie Gunner said.

"Okay," I said.

"Tell me what my mom is like," Jackie Gunner demanded.
"Tell us everything."

"Mommy," echoed Jamie Lou.

"She's pretty cool," I said.

"Okay?" Jackie Gunner said.

"You want to know right now?" I asked.

"Well, we don't exactly got a whole lot of time,
Pops."

"We're not gonna be people," Jamie Lou explained, suddenly somber.
I looked at her.

I thought of one place to start: my mother's Volvo.
It did this thing where if you ever stopped all
the way, the car just shut off about half the
time. You'd have to rush to shift into park, then
twist the key to off, and then turn it back
on to get the car started again. It'd get going
just fine, but the next time you stopped—lights out. Eventually,
you got the hang of it, figured out all the
little tricks. Like, if I shifted to neutral just as
I stopped, the engine would maintain a healthy hum. Or
you could just never stop: slow down early for every
red light, roll every stop sign.

It was my third time driving Jaclyn anywhere. We were
about five feet into the intersection, and I was still
inching forward. Jaclyn pretended everything was normal. She wore an
acid-washed denim jacket over a tank top and some cargo
pants. "I'm sorry, I know I look crazy," she'd said
as she flipped the passenger-side visor closed and deflated into
the passenger seat with a sigh. She'd just gotten off
of work at a store that sold things like cargo
pants and acid-washed denim jackets. "You do look a little
off. I wasn't gonna say anything, though," I'd said with
a stupid chuckle. I knew she knew she looked fine.
"Watch it," she said through a real smile. The car
behind me honked. We ended up at a Chinese spot
close to my place.

After we put our orders in, the man at the
counter asked, "Separate or together?" Jaclyn shot out a "Together"
before I had a chance to be awkward. I looked
at her, and she laughed the laugh she does when
she's about to win at something or is caught in
a lie. "I deserve something for not mentioning the less-than-road-worthy
car you got me riding in," she'd said.

"Your mom's a cool lady, I guess," I said to
the twins. "We've been together for almost a year. But
we'll probably go to different colleges in the fall."

"Oh no," said Jamie Lou, heartbroken.

"Oh no," said Jackie Gunner, mockingly. He used his arm
to conk his sister over the head.

"Chill," I said.

"It's okay," Jamie Lou said. She wrapped Jackie Gunner in
a big hug and kissed the side of his head.

Jackie Gunner did not look impressed. He turned his attention
back to me. "So what?" he asked. "What about me?"

"We aren't gonna be people," Jamie Lou reminded him. Jackie
Gunner ignored her.

"Me and Jaclyn—that's her name—well, me and Jaclyn did—she missed
her period. We weren't very careful as far as methods,"
I continued. They're far too young to hear about this
kind of thing, I thought. Jackie Gunner looked at me
in his weird closed-eye kind of way, like he had
no idea what I was talking about. Jamie Lou nodded
silently. "She took a test," I said.

I spared them these details: Jaclyn and me in the
drugstore. Her wiping her eyes and saying, "I look crazy"
before we stepped in. The fact that the store was
packed, which felt like a mean joke. How we were
afraid of getting to the register. How we went to
the register. How we were quietly connected, as close as
we had ever been, as we averted our eyes from
those of the strangers around us. How, if I had
to pick, I'd say the hero of this whole thing
was the young woman behind the store counter. How her
brown eyes melted wide, then cooled to a thin, sharp,
yet gentle seriousness when Jaclyn pointed behind her to the
purple box, hung not far from the cigarettes and iPhone
chargers, 99 PERCENT ACCURACY emblazoned on its top right corner.
How she nodded and tossed the test into a bag
so quickly I would have missed it if I hadn't
been watching the whole thing with an unblinking, morbid interest.

"It was positive. The test. We talked about what to
do and decided we couldn't handle it, I mean you—I
mean a child, children."

Jackie Gunner responded with a grunt. Jamie Lou didn't say
anything.

The blood that was slowly secreting from the twins' skin
was staining my pillowcase, which they were now sitting on.

"After the test, we went to a clinic. She took
the pills here. It was better that way. My mom
works nights. It wasn't fun. It was hard for us,"
I said. It was hard for her. And me, too.
"That's it basically," I said. Somewhere in the middle of
it, I'd gotten scared that something was wrong and considered
calling 911. It seemed impossible that anyone in the medical
field would allow a human being to experience what Jaclyn
went through. But I did not call 911. I drove
her home in the Volvo. My mother left it home
most days because she didn't think it was safe.

"Whatever," Jackie Gunner said. "I don't got all day. I
wanna know what woulda happened."

"The psychic, the psychic!" said Jamie Lou.

"That's where we gotta go," said Jackie Gunner.

I was afraid they'd ask to go there. Their mother
loved those kinds of places. "Okay," I said, smiling through
my guilt. "Okay."

I threw on some jeans, some Chucks, a light jacket.
The twins were losing their pink shine and becoming a
grayish red. I understood their time was limited.

"Let's go, Dad, hurry up," Jackie Gunner said as he
raised his tiny arms toward me like a toddler waiting
to be scooped up. I tried not to look repulsed.
I lowered my hand so they could climb up. Jamie
Lou tried to hop up onto my hand in one
great leap. She tripped and fell face-first into my clammy
skin. "Whoops," she said. When she was settled and upright,
I practiced moving while holding them. Cradling them like puddles
in my cupped palm. They were cool and slimy.

"You guys gonna be okay?"

"No," they said together.

I walked, taking long, quick steps, with my left palm
and the twins close to my chest. I used my
right hand to shield them the way you'd guard a
flame from the wind. If Jackie Gunner was afraid he'd
fall out of my hand onto the concrete, he didn't
show it. I felt kind of proud about that. But
Jamie Lou curled into a small ball and was shaking
with fear. Jackie Gunner kicked at her and said, "Baby!
Baby, what a baby!" I stopped walking.

"Hey," I said. "Can't you be nice for one second?
You going to be a jerk all day?"

"It's in my genes," Jackie Gunner replied.

"Very funny," I said, trying to make my voice bigger
than it was. "It isn't cool. Do better.

"And you," I said, shifting my attention to Jamie Lou,
who was peeking out from the ball she'd rolled herself
into. "You need to stand up for yourself. Don't let
anybody push you around like that. Okay?"

"Okay," Jamie Lou squeaked.

"Whatever," said Jackie Gunner.

I stared at him and tried to project a sense
of disappointment. He stared back at me, and I felt
the disappointment I wanted him to feel rain back all
over me. I continued walking toward the psychic's place without
looking back into my hand.

Jaclyn had gone to see the psychic two days before
our appointment at the clinic.

I'd asked her not to go. She wouldn't listen. Then
I'd asked her which psychic she was going to and
when. "I'm going to that guy on Lark tomorrow afternoon—you
want to come with me?" I'd told her I didn't
believe in that kind of stuff. "You don't believe in
anything," she'd said.

The next night she'd called me. I'd been waiting. "It
was crazy!" she'd said. "He knew so much. He was,
like, 'Even though you're feeling stuck, you need to do
what you think is best for you,'" she'd said. "I
didn't say anything about it. He just knew." I'd sighed
heavy, heavy relief and felt guilty about how little guilt
I'd felt in that moment. Jaclyn also said the psychic
had told her that she and her significant other "didn't
have a healthy channel of communication."

The psychic's place was a few minutes away. There was
a sign that said LARK STREET READINGS on a door
that had peeling green paint and a gold-colored knob. I
reached for the door with my right hand, exposing Jackie
Gunner and Jamie Lou to the wind and cold. I
grabbed the knob, felt its icy cool in one hand
and the twins shivering in the other. I let go
of the knob, opened up my jacket, and slid Jackie
Gunner and Jamie Lou into the inner chest pocket.

"Thanks, Pops."

"Thanks, Daddy."

"Once we're in there, you have to keep quiet. Okay?
I'll do the talking," I said.

"Whatever," Jackie Gunner said. He didn't seem worried about being
in the dark of my inner jacket. He was a
pretty brave little guy. Staring up at me, Jamie Lou
closed her mouth and puffed her cheeks like she was
holding her breath before a big dive.

There was a tiny spot of blood in my palm.
I wiped it on my jeans.

Again, I reached for the doorknob. The door opened with
a dry scrape, and together we stepped into the entryway,
letting cold air rattle a wind chime above us.

"Come in," a voice said. "Would you like some tea?"

"That's okay," I called up a carpeted set of stairs
that led to the psychic's reading area.

"How did you—" another voice began.

I was embarrassed before anything else. Then I felt like
I was sinking into the floor. The twins, tucked into
my jacket pocket, moved slowly against my chest.

"Jac?" I said.

She appeared at the top of the steps in gray
sweats tucked into these tall green rain boots and a
black windbreaker that used to be mine but was now
definitively hers. I worked my way up the stairs. We
kind of stared at each other until she spoke.

"Hey," she said. "This is weird."

"Yeah." I walked the rest of the way up the
carpeted stairs. I thought that maybe I should have given
her a hug or a kiss or something, but I
didn't. I didn't want to risk crushing Jamie and Jackie.
"I guess you wanted another reading?"

"I felt so much better after last time. And then
I couldn't sleep last night. I still don't feel great,"
she said, staring into my eyes, watching me.

I took a deep breath. "That's what these guys are
here for, I guess," I said, looking away. We stepped
into a beaded curtain that sounded like rain as we
walked through. It led to the psychic's living room, which
was where he saw clients. There was an old brown
table with strange images carved into the wood: an eye
that was also the sun, a body that crouched holding
a hammer, a bear with wings. There was an entertainment
system on one side of the room opposite a gray
couch. The television at the center of the console was
covered with a purple silk cloth. Another cloth of the
exact same color was in the psychic's hands when he
emerged from his kitchen, a space adjacent to the living/divining
room. He used the cloth to hold a steaming pot
by the rim because it had no handle. He had
dark black hair and a nose ring.

He poured the tea into two cups that were already
on a counter near the couch.

"Couple's session?" he asked.

Jaclyn shot me a look that said, See? "You knew
we were a couple," she said. The twins wiggled.

"Please, have a seat, guys," the psychic said. We sat
on the couch.

"So what will it be?" the psychic began. "Tarot? I'm
doing a special deal on crystal readings if you want
to try something different. And, of course, I can read
your palms for five dollars," he said as he settled
into a wicker chair across from us. He crossed one
leg over the other and sipped his tea. He was
so comfortable.

"What do you want to do?" Jaclyn said, looking at
me. I kept my eyes on the psychic.

"I don't know," I said. "Maybe I'll just watch?"

"You came to the psychic this early in the morning,
and now you're just gonna watch?"

"I didn't really plan on—"

"Me being here? So now you're gonna just sit there?"

Her voice was doing that thing it does. The psychic
sipped his tea.

"I'll do the cheapest one, I guess," I said. Though
what I thought was there is nothing he can say
to help me.

"Fine," she said with a sigh. She sank farther into
the couch.

"Great," the psychic said. "Is this your first consultation?"

"Yes," I said. He moved his wicker chair around to
our side of the room and sat close to me.

"Okay, palms are a good place to start, I think."
I offered him my left hand, still slightly red with
the blood of Jackie Gunner and Jamie Lou. He rubbed
it with the purple silk cloth; it was still warm
from the tea's heat. He scrutinized my hand. Jaclyn hovered
near my shoulder so she could see what was happening.

"Well, generally," the psychic said as he traced a rectangle
around the outside of my palm, "the shape of your
hand suggests that you tend to be pretty skeptical."

"Hmm," said Jaclyn.

"You're the type of dude who has a plan, and
you value security," the psychic continued. I looked up at
him; his eyes were still locked on my hand.

"Also, see these long fingers you've got," the psychic said
as he traced the length of my middle finger. "That
means you're sensitive to details and need things to be
a certain way."

"Yup," Jaclyn muttered from over my shoulder.

"And this," the psychic said. There was a tumbling in
my jacket. Jackie Gunner was probably bullying his sister again.
"This is your life line," the psychic said. He pointed
to the deep brown line closest to my thumb. I
realized I was wasting everyone's time. I was worried about
Jamie Lou. "The way your life line sweeps out to
the center of your hand, it favors the Plain of
Mars, you see, so that means—"

"Stop, please," I said. I pulled a five-dollar bill from
my jeans and dropped it on the table. "I don't
really feel well." It was true. "I think I'm going
home." It felt like the twins were doing jumping jacks.
I was worried. I brought my hand to my chest
and pressed it there to still them. I tried to
be careful.

"Are you serious?" Jaclyn said. "That's so rude."

"No worries. It's been a pleasure—good luck with everything," the
psychic said, flattening himself into his chair.

"No. I'm so sorry; he's just stressed right now," Jaclyn
said.

"Absolutely no problem, it's cool, it's cool, it's all cool,"
said the psychic. He sipped his tea.

"It is not cool, but thank you. He's been this
way for a while," she said, trying to stab me
with her eyes.

"This place is a joke, Jaclyn," I said. I stared
at the psychic. "Tell her it's a joke."

"Man, I have nothing to do with you and yours,"
the psychic said. He put his mug down.

"Just admit it. Tell her," I said. "Tell her."

"Listen, I'm just the guy who gets up early in
the morning and packs the trunk up. I help you
get where you're already going," the psychic said calmly.

"What are you talking about?" Jaclyn asked.

I could feel the twins listening, wanting to be a
part of this. It felt like they were trying and
failing to pull themselves free. A muffled voice was coming
out of my pocket, so I started shouting over it.

"I'm talking about how this psychic will say whatever you
want him to say to anyone if you pay him
twenty dollars in advance. This isn't the first time he's
taken my money." I hoped I wouldn't have to say
much more. The day before Jaclyn went to see the
psychic, I'd called him and asked him to tell her
everything was going to be okay if she'd just follow
the plan she already had in place. I thought telling
her the truth about what I'd done would make me
feel like a giant. Instead, once I said it, I
felt weak, stupid, scared. "I'm sorry, Jaclyn, I'm really sorry,"
I said. She was sitting there. I reached for her
hand. She recoiled from me in a way I can't
remember her ever doing before.

"You think I'm some kind of idiot?" Jaclyn said. "You
think he's the reason I did it? He didn't make
any decision for me. Neither did you. I'm not—I don't
understand how you could think this had anything to do
with that. Are you insane?"

"No, I—" I began, but from the look on her
face I could see there wasn't going to be any
more discussion.

I heard a muffled "Wait" coming from my jacket pocket.

I left.

Once I was outside the psychic's place, I stopped walking
and took off my jacket.

"You guys okay?" I asked. There was no answer. "Hey,"
I said. I put my hand at the pocket seam
so they could crawl out. Jamie Lou appeared in my
hand. She was gray and dry now.

"Where's Jackie Gunner?" I asked.

"He was bullying me," Jamie Lou said, her voice hoarse.
She reminded me of a plucked leaf. "So I killed
him," she finished.

"What?" I said. I felt the fear you feel when
you've done something, anything, that you can't take back. I
bent over and shook the jacket a little. A tiny
gray body of ash fell out. "How could you?" I
yelled.

"You did," Jamie Lou said.

"What?" I said.

"He wasn't going to be a person," Jamie Lou reminded
me.

"It doesn't matter," I said. "You can't just—" I lowered
Jamie Lou and Jackie Gunner's tiny body to the concrete.

"You said not to be a pushover," Jamie Lou squealed
in her now coarse, broken voice. I could see she
was almost out of time. "I did it for you,
Daddy." She was a tiny speck on the ground near
her tiny brother. Both were almost invisible against the gray
of the sidewalk.

At the clinic, just before Jaclyn disappeared behind a white
door to get her ultrasound, she looked back at me
sitting in the waiting-room chair. She gave me this brave
little half smile. Her eyes were bright from hiding tears.
She wanted to make this whole thing a little less
terrible if she could. And she did. And no matter
how hard I tried, I'd probably never know exactly how
she felt. But she made me feel like, as she
looked back at me, maybe it was all just what
it was and not the apocalypse.

"Do you hate me?" Jamie Lou said.

"No," I said.

"So you loved us, Daddy?" Jamie Lou said, hugging my
shoelace.

"No," I said. I raised my foot, shook her off,
and started to walk away, hoping she would not follow
me.

"What are you doing?"

I turned and saw Jaclyn. She ran up to where
I'd left Jamie Lou and picked her up along with
the body of her brother.

"Hey," I said, walking toward her, feeling trapped and wondering
if I would ever escape any of this. I wanted
to pretend it hadn't happened, but I was reminded by
everything I felt. "I'm sorry. I feel like, like there's
only wrong answers."

"You don't care, Daddy," Jamie Lou said. Jackie Gunner, who'd
been limp, was now moving very slowly in Jaclyn's hand.
"Thanks, Mommy," Jamie Lou said, snuggling against Jaclyn's thumb.

"I feel like you think I don't care," I continued.
"And I do care, but I was afraid that if
I cared that way you'd change your mind."

"It's all right," Jaclyn said to Jamie Lou.

"You've met already?" I asked.

"Of course we have," Jaclyn said. "What did you do
to him?" she asked, looking at Jackie Gunner.

"It wasn't my fault," I said. This had been my
personal mantra for some time now.

"Of course it wasn't," Jaclyn replied. She took a step
closer and stared me in the eye. Disappointment rained. Then
she looked at our unborn children withering away in her
hand. "It's fine, I'll handle it," she said with only
a small fraction of the sharpness she could summon. She
turned and started walking.

"Can I help?" I said.

"Maybe later," Jaclyn said, her voice tired but without malice.
I watched her, then I started in the opposite direction.
I walked, hoping I'd see her smile again. At home
I fell asleep on a pillow stained with blood.