TOMORROW IS TOO FAR

It was the last summer you spent in Nigeria, the
summer before your parents' divorce, before your mother swore you
would never again set foot in Nigeria to see your
father's family, especially Grandmama. You remember the heat of that
summer clearly, even now, eighteen years later—the way Grandmama's yard
felt moistly warm, a yard with so many trees that
the telephone wire was tangled in leaves and different branches
touched one another and sometimes mangoes appeared on cashew trees
and guavas on mango trees. The thick mat of decaying
leaves was soggy under your bare feet. In the afternoons,
yellow-bellied bees buzzed around your head and your brother Nonso's
and cousin Dozie's heads, and in the evenings Grandmama let
only your brother Nonso climb the trees to shake a
loaded branch, although you were a better climber than he
was. Fruits would rain down, avocados and cashews and guavas,
and you and your cousin Dozie would fill old buckets
with them.

It was the summer Grandmama taught Nonso how to pluck
the coconuts. The coconut trees were hard to climb, so
limb-free and tall, and Grandmama gave Nonso a long stick
and showed him how to nudge the padded pods down.
She didn't show you, because she said girls never plucked
coconuts. Grandmama cracked the coconuts against a stone, carefully, so
the watery milk stayed in the lower piece, a jagged
cup. Everybody got a sip of the wind-cooled milk, even
the children from down the street who came to play,
and Grandmama presided over the sipping ritual to make sure
Nonso went first.

It was the summer you asked Grandmama why Nonso sipped
first even though Dozie was thirteen, a year older than
Nonso, and Grandmama said Nonso was her son's only son,
the one who would carry on the Nnabuisi name, while
Dozie was only a nwadiana, her daughter's son. It was
the summer you found the molt of a snake on
the lawn, unbroken and sheer like see-through stockings, and Grandmama
told you the snake was called the echi eteka, "Tomorrow
Is Too Far." One bite, she said, and it's over
in ten minutes.

It was not the summer you fell in love with
your cousin Dozie because that happened a few summers before,
when he was ten and you were seven and you
both wiggled into the tiny space behind Grandmama's garage and
he tried to fit what you both called his "banana"
into what you both called your "tomato" but neither of
you was sure which was the right hole. It was,
however, the summer you got lice, and you and your
cousin Dozie dug through your thick hair to find the
tiny black insects and squash them against your fingernails and
laugh at the tart sound of their blood-filled bellies bursting;
the summer that your hate for your brother Nonso grew
so much you felt it squeezing your nostrils and your
love for your cousin Dozie ballooned and wrapped around your
skin.

It was the summer you watched a mango tree crack
into two near-perfect halves during a thunderstorm, when the lightning
cut fiery lines through the sky.

It was the summer Nonso died.

Grandmama did not call it summer. Nobody did in Nigeria.
It was August, nestled between the rainy season and the
harmattan season. It could pour all day, silver rain splashing
onto the verandah where you and Nonso and Dozie slapped
away mosquitoes and ate roast corn; or the sun would
be blinding and you would float in the water tank
Grandmama had sawed in half, a makeshift pool. The day
Nonso died was mild; there was drizzle in the morning,
lukewarm sun in the afternoon, and, in the evening, Nonso's
death. Grandmama screamed at him—at his limp body—saying i laputago
m, that he had betrayed her, asking him who would
carry on the Nnabuisi name now, who would protect the
family lineage.

The neighbors came over when they heard her. It was
the woman from the house across the road—the one whose
dog rummaged in Grandmama's dustbin in the mornings—who coaxed the
American phone number from your numb lips and called your
mother. It was also that neighbor who unclasped your and
Dozie's hands, made you sit down, and gave you some
water. The neighbor tried, too, to hold you close so
you would not hear Grandmama as she talked to your
mother on the phone, but you slid away from the
woman, closer to the phone. Grandmama and your mother were
focused on Nonso's body, rather than his death. Your mother
was insisting that Nonso's body be flown back to America
right away and Grandmama was repeating your mother's words and
shaking her head. Madness lurked in her eyes.

You knew Grandmama had never liked your mother. (You had
heard Grandmama say this some summers before to her friend—That
black American woman has tied up my son and put
him in her pocket.) But watching Grandmama on the phone,
you understood that she and your mother were united. You
were sure your mother had the same red madness in
her eyes.

When you talked to your mother, her voice echoed over
the line in a way it had never done all
the years before when you and Nonso spent summers with
Grandmama. Are you all right? she kept asking you. Are
you all right? She sounded fearful, as though she suspected
that you were all right, despite Nonso's death. You played
with the phone wire and said little. She said she
would send word to your father, although he was somewhere
in the woods attending a Black Arts festival where there
were no phones or radios. Finally she sobbed a harsh
sob, a sob like the bark of a dog, before
she told you everything would be fine and she was
going to arrange for Nonso's body to be flown back.
It made you think of her laugh, a ho-ho-ho laugh
that started deep inside her belly and did not soften
as it came up and did not suit her willowy
body at all. When she went into Nonso's room to
say good night, she always came out laughing that laugh.
Most times, you pressed your palms to your ears to
keep the sound out, and kept your palms pressed to
your ears even when she came into your room to
say Good night, darling, sleep well. She never left your
room with that laugh.

After the phone call, Grandmama lay stretched out with her
back on the floor, eyes unblinking, rolling from side to
side, as though she were playing some sort of silly
game. She said it was wrong to fly Nonso's body
back to America, that his spirit would always hover here.
He belonged to this hard earth that had failed to
absorb the shock of his fall. He belonged to the
trees here, one of which had let go of him.
You sat and watched her and at first you wished
she would get up and take you in her arms,
then you wished she wouldn't.

It has been eighteen years and the trees in Grandmama's
yard look unchanged; they still reach out and hug one
another, still cast shadows over the yard. But everything else
seems smaller: the house, the garden at the back, the
water tank copper-colored from rust. Even Grandmama's grave in the
backyard looks tiny, and you imagine her body being crumpled
to fit a small coffin. The grave is covered with
a thin coat of cement; the soil around it is
freshly dug and you stand next to it and picture
it in ten years' time, untended, tangled weeds covering the
cement, choking the grave.

Dozie is watching you. At the airport, he had hugged
you cautiously, said welcome and what a surprise that you
came back, and you stared at his face for a
long time in the busy, shuffling lounge until he looked
away, his eyes brown and sad like those of your
friend's poodle. You didn't need that look, though, to know
that the secret of how Nonso died was safe with
Dozie, had always been safe with Dozie. As he drove
to Grandmama's house, he asked about your mother and you
told him that your mother lived in California now; you
did not mention that it was in a commune among
people with shaved heads and pierced breasts or that when
she called, you always hung up while she was still
speaking.

You move toward the avocado tree. Dozie is still watching
you and you look at him and try to remember
the love that clogged you up so fully that summer
you were ten, that made you hold on tight to
Dozie's hand the afternoon after Nonso died, when Dozie's mother,
your aunty Mgbechibelije, came to take him away. There is
a gentle sorrow in the lines across his forehead, a
melancholy in the way he stands with his arms by
his sides. You suddenly wonder if he longed, too, like
you did. You never knew what was beneath his quiet
smile, beneath the times he would sit so still that
the fruit flies perched on his arms, beneath the pictures
he gave you and the birds he kept in a
cardboard cage, petting them until they died. You wonder what,
if anything, he felt about being the wrong grandson, the
one who did not bear the Nnabuisi name.

You reach out to touch the trunk of the avocado
tree; just as Dozie starts to say something, startling you
because you think he is going to bring up Nonso's
death, but he tells you that he never imagined that
you would come back to say goodbye to Grandmama because
he knew how much you hated her. That word—"hate"—hangs in
the air between you both like an accusation. You want
to say that when he called you in New York,
the first time you were hearing his voice in eighteen
years, to tell you that Grandmama had died—I thought you
would want to know, were his words—you leaned on your
office desk, your legs turning molten, a lifetime of silence
collapsing, and it was not Grandmama you thought of, it
was Nonso, and it was him, Dozie, and it was
the avocado tree and it was that humid summer in
the amoral kingdom of your childhood and it was all
the things you had not allowed yourself to think about,
that you had flattened to a thin sheet and tucked
away.

But instead you say nothing and press your palms deep
into the rough trunk of the tree. The pain soothes
you. You remember eating the avocados; you liked yours with
salt and Nonso didn't like his with salt and Grandmama
always clucked and said you did not know what was
good when you said the unsalted avocado nauseated you.

. . .

At Nonso's funeral in a cold cemetery in Virginia with
tombstones jutting out obscenely, your mother was in faded black
from head to toe, even a veil, and it made
her cinnamon skin glow. Your father stood away from both
of you, in his usual dashiki, milk-colored cowries coiled round
his neck. He looked as if he were not family,
as if he were one of the guests who sniffled
loudly and later asked your mother in hushed tones exactly
how Nonso had died, exactly how he had fallen from
one of the trees he had climbed since he was
a toddler.

Your mother said nothing to them, all those people who
asked questions. She said nothing to you, either, about Nonso,
not even when she cleaned up his room and packed
his things. She did not ask if you wanted to
keep anything, and you were relieved. You did not want
to have any of his books with his handwriting that
your mother said was neater than typewritten sentences. You did
not want his photographs of pigeons in the park that
your father said showed so much promise for a child.
You did not want his paintings, which were mere copies
of your father's only in different colors. Or his clothes.
Or his stamp collection.

Your mother brought Nonso up, finally, three months after his
funeral, when she told you about the divorce. She said
the divorce was not about Nonso, that she and your
father had long been growing apart. (Your father was in
Zanzibar then; he had left right after Nonso's funeral.) Then
your mother asked: How did Nonso die?

You still wonder how those words tumbled out of your
mouth. You still do not recognize the clear-eyed child that
you were. Maybe it was because of the way she
said the divorce was not about Nonso—as though Nonso was
the only one capable of being a reason, as though
you were not in the running. Or maybe it was
simply that you felt the burning desire that you still
feel sometimes, the need to smooth out wrinkles, to flatten
things you find too bumpy. You told your mother, with
your tone suitably reluctant, that Grandmama had asked Nonso to
climb to the highest branch of the avocado tree to
show her how much of a man he was. Then
she frightened him—it was a joke, you assured your mother—by
telling him that there was a snake, the echi eteka,
on the branch close to him. She asked him not
to move. Of course he moved and slipped off the
branch, and when he landed, the sound was like many
fruits falling at the same time. A dull, final plop.
Grandmama stood there and stared at him and then started
to shout at him about how he was the only
son, how he had betrayed the lineage by dying, how
the ancestors would be displeased. He was breathing, you told
your mother. He was breathing when he fell but Grandmama
just stood there and shouted at his broken body until
he died.

Your mother started to scream. And you wondered if people
screamed in that crazed way when they had just chosen
to reject truth. She knew well enough that Nonso had
hit his head on a stone and died on the
spot—she had seen his body, his cracked head. But she
chose to believe Nonso was alive after he fell. She
cried, howled, and cursed the day she set eyes on
your father at the first exhibition of his work. Then
she called him, you heard her shouting on the phone:
Your mother is responsible! She panicked him and made him
fall! She could have done something afterwards but instead she
stood there like the stupid fetish African woman that she
is and let him die!

Your father talked to you afterwards, and said he understood
how hard it was for you but you had to
be careful what you said so that you didn't cause
more hurt. And you thought about his words—Be careful what
you say—and wondered if he knew you were lying.

That summer, eighteen years ago, was the summer of your
first self-realization. The summer you knew that something had to
happen to Nonso, so that you could survive. Even at
ten you knew that some people can take up too
much space by simply being, that by existing, some people
can stifle others. The idea of scaring Nonso with the
echi eteka was yours alone. But you explained it to
Dozie, that you both needed Nonso to get hurt—maybe maim
him, maybe twist his legs. You wanted to mar the
perfection of his lithe body, to make him less lovable,
less able to do all that he did. Less able
to take up your space. Dozie said nothing and instead
drew a picture of you with your eyes in the
shape of stars.

Grandmama was inside cooking and Dozie was standing silently close
to you, your shoulders touching, when you suggested Nonso climb
to the top of the avocado tree. It was easy
to get him to; you only had to remind him
that you were the better climber. And you really were
the better climber, you could scale a tree, any tree,
in seconds—you were better at the things that did not
need to be taught, the things that Grand mama could
not teach him. You asked him to go first, to
see if he could get to the topmost branch of
the avocado before you followed. The branches were weak, and
Nonso was heavier than you. Heavy from all the food
Grandmama made him eat. Eat a little more, she would
say often. Who do you think I made it for?
As though you were not there. Sometimes she would pat
your back and say in Igbo, It's good you are
learning, nne, this is how you will take care of
your husband one day.

Nonso climbed the tree. Higher and higher. You waited till
he was nearly at the top, till his legs hesitated
before inching farther up. You waited for that short moment
when he was between motions. An open moment, a moment
you saw the blueness of everything, of life itself—the pure
azure of one of your father's paintings, of opportunity, of
a sky washed clean by a morning shower. Then you
screamed. "A snake! It's the echi eteka! A snake!" You
were not sure whether to say that the snake was
on a branch close to him, or sliding up the
trunk. But it didn't matter because, in those few seconds,
Nonso looked down at you and let go, his foot
slipping, his arms freeing themselves. Or maybe the tree simply
shrugged Nonso off.

You don't remember now how long you stayed looking at
Nonso before you went in to call Grandmama, Dozie all
the time silent beside you.

Dozie's word—"hate"—floats around in your head now. Hate. Hate. Hate.
The word makes it difficult to breathe, the same way
it was difficult to breathe when you waited, those months
after Nonso died, for your mother to notice that you
had a voice pure like water and legs like elastic
bands, for your mother to end her good-night visits to
your room with that deep ho-ho-ho laugh. Instead she held
you too gingerly while saying good night, always speaking in
whispers, and you started to avoid her kisses by faking
coughs and sneezes. Year after year as she moved you
from state to state, lighting red candles in her bedroom,
banning all talk of Nigeria or of Grandmama, refusing to
let you see your father, she never again laughed that
laugh.

Dozie speaks now, tells you that he began to dream
of Nonso a few years ago, dreams in which Nonso
is older and taller than him, and you hear fruit
fall from a tree nearby and you ask him without
turning around, What did you want, that summer, what did
you want?

You do not know when Dozie moves, when he stands
behind you, so close that you smell the citrus on
him, perhaps he peeled an orange and did not wash
his hands afterwards. He turns you around and looks at
you and you look at him and there are fine
lines on his forehead and a new harshness in his
eyes. He tells you it did not occur to him
to want because what mattered was what you wanted. There
is a long silence while you watch the column of
black ants making its way up the trunk, each ant
carrying a bit of white fluff, creating a black-and-white pattern.
He asks you if you dreamed the way he did
and you say no, your eyes avoiding his, and he
turns away from you. You want to tell him about
the pain in your chest and the emptiness in your
ears and the roiling air after his phone call, about
the doors flung open, about the flattened things that popped
out, but he is walking away. And you are weeping,
standing alone under the avocado tree.