MY HOUSE

Who would sell a gem like that? Well, Mel Hays.
That was his name. Per Jordan at Hillside Realty. He
was mad to sell. Sick wife, had just retired, couldn't
keep the place up. Odd duck, Jordan said, required a
personal meeting with anyone thinking of offering.

My God, we hit it off. Hays was big, shaggy,
friendly, funny: the brother I'd never had. He'd worked for
the village, had a thing for history. Me too, I
said, and we shared a mutual history-nerd blush. What I
loved about the place were exactly the things he loved
about it: the barn (built in 1789); the six leaning
hitching posts, each capped with a different serpent face; the
oak from which the wrong man had been hung for
treason; the smaller oak planted over the spot where the
man's body lay buried for fifteen years before his family
came to dig him up.

Ghosts? I asked.

Ho ho, he said, touching my arm, meaning: There's more
to say on that matter, friend.

The door to the room where the wife was sick
stayed closed. But the rest of the house, Good Lord.
Bookshelves everywhere, of mahogany and maple, strange half-rooms stuffed with
cased artifacts: a Tahitian oar, the neck of a fiddle
played at Antietam, a child's jacket from the time of
Washington, smudged, just there, with mud from the period.

Amazing, I said.

We've been lucky, he said.

The interior showed signs of the neglect associated with the
wife's illness and their shortage of funds and I resolved,
in the name of this surprising warmth between us, to
meet his asking price.

Just because.

Because I had it.

By the time we came back out onto the wide
porch I had so admired from the road we were
friends and the house, it seemed, was mine. There's a
family of foxes who come to sit over there in
the arbor, he said. And: Those dogwoods flower white like
crazy in early April. And: You'll want to watch the
basement walls for cracks in the winter.

It had a manor-house feeling and sat high on a
hill overlooking the quaint little village.

I thought of my friends moving awed through the wide
front hall, craning their necks up that mysterious winding stairwell,
and then I'd guide them upstairs to the room where,
in such-and-such a year, So-and-so had endured a difficult childbirth.
I'd do research on the house and compile my findings
in a leather-bound book, to be placed in the pentagonal
recess in the narrow hall that led to the former
servants' quarters. All my life I'd believed I'd someday live
in a place like this, had suffered the distance between
such places as they existed in my imagination and the
places in which I'd actually lived (before Kay, with Kay,
after Kay left): their low ceilings, ugly heat vents, hollow
pine doors. To live here would be, I imagined, a
sort of exorcism of all the limitations I'd ever felt.
Here one sensed—craftsmanship, yes, but also, my God—the past, the
living past: the parties held, the food served, the dust
motes of 1862, the war goodbyes of 1917, the whispered
late-night dramas that had forever altered the lives of the
people who'd once moved down these very hallways and now
lay buried in the village graveyard I'd visited on the
way over, trailing my hands over the mossy stones, reading
names aloud, thinking, Poor bastards, you no longer walk in
the sun.

Hays paused us at an orchard. Apples and pears had
once hung thick on the trees and carpeted the ground,
he said. Now, well, no. There was some sort of
disease. He'd been preoccupied.

And he gestured up at the window of the sickroom
of the wife.

I'll hire a gardener, I thought, get it back to
health. He seemed to read my mind and the look
on his face said: You showing up here, now, to
steward this beloved place, and with the means to do
so, proves that such a thing as good fortune truly
exists.

Our handshake seemed to mean: Let's burn through the technicalities,
get the thing done.

It kills me, he said. To think of losing this
place forever.

I get that, I said.

And I did. My mind leapt ahead, to that sad
future someday when I, too, would lose it forever.

It's heaven, he said. It's been a heaven for the
two of us.

I believe it, I said.

Maybe, he said, and a look came over his face,
a self-doubting look, and I found myself wanting to offer
whatever he needed.

It was strange, very strange, to like someone so much
on a first meeting.

Go on, I said.

Maybe I could drop by now and then, he said.

And I thought: Well, yes, sure, it would be good
to see him once in a while.

But then he went on.

Spend a day or two, he said. Stay in the
guest room, maybe.

I didn't say no. I didn't. But a look must
have passed over my face. Wouldn't a look have passed
over yours? Dropping by…well, maybe. But spending "a day or
two"? "In the guest room"? Did he mean my guest
room or theirs? The room they had designated or the
one I soon would—

It was one too many, somehow.

Then I thought: He won't take me up on it
once he's out; he's just talking, to be comforted.

Recovering my manners, I said yes, of course he would
be welcome, they would, always welcome, anytime at all.

But now there was a look on his face.

Anytime at all, I said. Truly.

He gave me a pat on the back, said we'd
see how things went, made a vague, despairing gesture at
my car, as in: There it is, you know where
it is, off you go.

I thought: Too bad. But, then again, where is it
written we have to be friends?

I sat in the car awhile, looking up at the
house, already loving it more than I'd ever loved any
place in my life.

I called Jordan, had her make the full-price offer, plus
ten percent. Next morning, she called back, mystified. It seemed
he'd changed his mind. About selling. It was the oddest
thing, she said. No way he could afford to keep
the place. His agent said the same. Together, they were
trying to figure out what the hell had gone wrong.
Hays was on a tiny pension, his wife was dying,
there were medical bills, the house had been on the
market for two years, mine was the first offer.

Did you say something? she asked. Do something?

He said he sometimes might want to come and stay
over, I said. Like, overnight. And I just, you know,
hesitated.

That's weird, she said. I mean, sounds like you were
well within your rights.

I think so, I said. I didn't say no. I
just…

And that did it? she said. Wow.

We went back, offered more, then more, until, finally, we
were offering more than a third again above his original
asking price.

But it was still a no.

In January the wife died. I sent a condolence card,
with an offer to meet for coffee, got no response.
I started driving by now and then just to torture
myself. That spring, the roof of the side library collapsed
after a tree fell on it. Soon the tree had
become part of the house. After a heavy summer rain,
the front porch I'd loved so much sank into the
earth a foot or so on the south end; three
of its columns bowed and cracked. Then one gave way
and the two halves of it lay in the yard
and the lip of the roof there drooped and you
could see into the rusty, filth-packed gutter. By October the
grand front lawn was overgrown and wild turkeys were foraging
there. You'd see them, big and ugly, strutting around like
dinosaurs.

Some nights a single light showed from an upstairs window.

Finally I wrote him a letter. Was there not some
way to fix this? Wasn't it in our mutual interest
to talk the thing through, come to some agreement? I
got no answer, wrote another. We're both good people, I
wrote, this is a win-win, can't we let bygones be
bygones? I am deeply sorry, I said, that I did
not respond more generously in the moment. I was just
taken aback. Briefly. I didn't say no, after all; I
only hesitated. Was that an unforgivable sin? Surely a person
could forgive the mistake of an instant?

Nothing.

A third letter: Wasn't he ashamed of himself, for being
so obstinate? Was this not, what we two old men
were enacting, exactly what has ailed the world since time
immemorial? Did he really think it was appropriate to make
the sale of a property contingent on installing himself as
a sort of permanent possible houseguest? What sort of dream
world was he living in?

No answer.

A fourth: You'll die, I'll get the house, trust me.
Why not sell now? Use the money to live a
better life than the tormented one it would appear you
are living, sitting up there lonely and bitter, letting that
beautiful place, a place you loved, a place the two
of you loved, go to seed. Shame on you, I
hope you're enjoying the fruits of your arrogance, you stubborn,
mean-spirited old bastard.

That one, to my credit, I never sent. I wadded
it up, burned it over the stove.

I had fallen ill. I am ill now. My time
is short. I burned that letter to prepare myself to
face what is coming with as pure a heart as
I can manage.

I need to write another. Of course. I know that.
If only for my own benefit.

I am truly sorry, it will begin. Sorry for my
part in this. What did you deny me, really, after
all? A beautiful year or so, in a lovely place.
It would have made me happy. But what is it,
a year, in the grand scheme? Nothing. What are ten
years, a hundred, a thousand? I am going, friend, I
am all but gone, I believe you prideful and wrong
but I have no desire, now, to cure you. Your
wrongness was an idea I had. I am all but
gone. My idea of your wrongness will go with me.
Your rightness is an idea you are having. It will
go with you. For all of that, I hope you
live forever, and if the place falls down around you,
as it seems to be doing, I hope even that
brings you joy. It was always falling down around you,
everything has always been falling down around us. Only we
were too alive to notice. I feel the truth of
this in my body now. I am trying not to
be terrified. But I am sometimes, in the night. If
you are a praying man, pray for me, friend. Friend
who might have been. Friend who should have been.

That letter exists in my mind. But I am too
tired to write it. Well, that is not true. I
am not too tired.

I'm just not ready.

The surge of pride and life and self is still
too strong in me.

But I will get there. I will. I will write
it yet.

Only I must not wait too long.