The Procession

THE JET LAG DOESN’T bother her. If anything, that sharp blade of light cutting through the window of the plane as they’d landed, turning their nocturnal flight into sudden dawn, had startled her like an electric charge. On the train they took from the airport (each of them had only one suitcase, one backpack, as if they were a young couple touring the world) she recognized the sky, the fields, the giant reeds, a few cupolas here and there. Yellow buildings in the distance, balconies loaded with plants. From the tram, she saw the same plane trees lining the avenue, with thick trunks and bark like a soldier’s camouflage. This morning she got up early, to enjoy her breakfast alone and pick up a few things in the nearby piazza.

He’s still groggy, he’s slept till noon. He’s never been to Rome, though he’s been to a few other European capitals. They’re here to celebrate his wife’s fiftieth birthday, though she really turned fifty a few months ago, while they were busy working at the university where they both teach. He teaches law, she teaches biology. He knows that Rome is part of her past. That long before they met, when she was nineteen, she’d studied there for a year and fallen in love for the first time, with a Roman boy.

The apartment they’ve rented has clashing furnishings. The small leather couch and stainless-steel lamps are distinctly modern, as is the glass coffee table. But they’re paired with huge, gilt-framed mirrors, a corner china cabinet with three squat legs, and a semicircular console furnished with one leg only, curving down the front like the tail of a wild animal. On the coffee table, a vase of sunflowers have just begun to droop. Against one of the walls, there’s a piano with chipped, yellowed keys, on top of which sits a series of small, dark landscape paintings.

The room next door has a huge cupboard for all the crockery, and a big round dining table with grotesques carved into its edges and various objects scattered on top: books, notebooks, magazines, water bottles, electronic devices, cords, packs of crackers, a camera, sunglasses, tubes of ointments, mosquito spray, and a bottle of pills. A crystal chandelier droops over the table. It’s missing some of its candles, and the escutcheon is partly detached from the ceiling.

He’s sitting on the sofa, tying the laces on a pair of sneakers. He’s just taken a shower and his hair is still wet. She’s ready to go. Her purse is strapped across her shoulder, she wears a long linen dress. Her silver hair, parted in the middle, is gathered at her neck. As she waits for her husband in front of the piano, she rummages through a bowl filled with keys.

“I can’t get it to open.”

“What?”

“The room at the end of the hallway. It’s locked.”

“I thought that was a closet.”

“No, I saw it from outside this morning when I left. It’s the room on the corner of the building. I bet it gets the best light at this time of day.”

“Is it already hot out?”

“A bit, but it’s not humid. Did you eat?”

“I found some bread in the kitchen.”

“I brought you a cornetto, didn’t you see it?”

She goes to the kitchen and brings back a small white paper bag.

“Here, it’s still warm.”

She opens the piano bench in front of the instrument and pulls out some lesson books. She sits on the bench and says, “There’s an amazing spot in the hallway, have you noticed? Where a magical breeze passes through, it’s like being by the sea.”

He swallows and says, “Everything feels like the sea here. I didn’t expect so many seagulls. Speaking of breezes, we should put some sort of weight in front of the French doors off the kitchen. They slam when the wind blows.”

“Did you see that there’s a washing machine on the balcony?”

“There’s an old dishwasher, too.”

“Who knows what’s inside it.”

“Inside the dishwasher?”

“No, inside that locked room.”

“Probably the landlady’s stuff. All the nice things she hides away so that her tenants don’t destroy the place.”

She strikes a random piano key, which emits no sound. “Was this the apartment where they didn’t allow children?”

“No, that was the pricey penthouse on the Tiber.”

“It would be ideal to use that locked room as a study.”

“We can both work at the dining table, it’s huge.”

She looks up at the ceiling.

“See how it’s starting to detach? You don’t think the chandelier could come crashing down, do you?”

“That metal piece is only decorative.”

“To me it doesn’t look like it’s attached to anything. How’s your cornetto?”

“Good. What’s in it?”

“Visciola.”

“What’s that?”

“It’s sort of like cherry, but it’s something else.”

“Did you have the same thing?”

“I did. I sat at a table at the coffee bar and tried to read a few headlines in the newspaper.”

“Tomorrow we can go together.”

“Tomorrow’s Sunday and the coffee bar is closed.”

“Oh.”

“So, are we ready? Let’s go, if not we’ll miss the procession.”

He leans his head against the back of the couch and closes his eyes.

“And what if we stayed here to avoid the heat and enjoyed the magical breeze in the apartment?”

“Come on, it’s something worth seeing.”

“Explain one more time what it’s all about?”

“The Virgin goes by.”

“It’s not like you’re a believer.”

“That’s not the point. I’d like to see her again, after all these years. That’s the reason I looked for a place to stay in this neighborhood.”

“Really?”

“I still remember her so vividly.”

“Who?”

“The Virgin.”

“What’s she like?”

“She’s beautiful. Carved in wood and wrapped in a silk gown, wearing precious jewels. Men dressed in white carry her in on their shoulders. First the band plays, then you see the palanquin raised high and all the believers recite the rosary. The crowd tosses rose petals at her.”

“And what’s it all supposed to mean?”

“The first one was held to commemorate the end of some sort of disaster, a bad storm or an earthquake, a plague, maybe, I don’t remember anymore. They’ve been doing it for ages now, and they always make the same stops. I thought it was so moving. An authentic piece of the city. You won’t find that in any museum.”

“You think it will be just like it was thirty years ago?”

“I’m sure of it. The fruit vendor told me the procession has always been the same and that he’s looked forward to it every year since he was born, that he hasn’t missed a single one.”

“I don’t think there’s anything I’ve done the exact same way every year of my life.”

“Here the same things happen, again and again.”

He opens the front door. “Do we have the keys?”

“Yes, they’re in my purse, and there’s a second set in that bowl.”

“Should we call for the elevator?”

“I’d rather take the stairs.”

“But we’re on the top floor.”

“What if it gets stuck? It’s July and the building is practically empty. I like taking the stairs, there’s always a nice breeze blowing through the stairwell.”

They arrive at a triangular piazza built on a moderate incline. This space, too, feels like a living room of sorts, with streets branching off of it here and there like hallways. There’s nothing noteworthy at the center, no fountain or statue that serves as a point of reference. Just a playground. The façades of the buildings—all of them five or six stories tall—are painted in warm colors: yellow, pink, orange. They have huge front doors and windows with green or brown shutters. Some have narrow balconies on the top floor with potted plants that overlook the piazza, which is surrounded by three coffee bars, a pharmacy, a hardware store, a bakery, a wine bar, a framer, and various other shops and restaurants. A few benches and trees run along the sides. Along one side, up a few steps, there’s a structure that houses a collection of permanent market stalls. The only truly historical element, at a slight remove from the gravitational center of the piazza, is the entrance to a small medieval church made of bricks. Some of the bricks are missing. The entrance is flanked by two columns—one smooth and the other grooved—that are two different shades of gray.

The couple stops briefly in front of the wrought-iron gate of the church, then moves on. It’s past two in the afternoon and there are only a handful of people walking around. The stores and market stalls are closed, but children play soccer or ride their bicycles. A group of elderly people sit on a bench, and a few faces stare out from the windows of the buildings.

The husband and wife walk slowly through the space.

“Where should we wait?” he asks.

“You decide.”

“Which way does the procession come?”

“It should come down that way.”

“But there’s no one here. Did we get the time wrong?”

“The fruit vendor said it would start around three and to get here a little early.”

“Maybe you misunderstood.”

“I didn’t misunderstand.”

A soccer ball rolls toward the couple’s feet. He stops it and kicks it back toward the children.

“There’s some shade over that way.”

They settle along a low wall, leaning against it without sitting down. They have their backs to the piazza. The husband rolls up his sleeves.

“You said it wasn’t humid today.”

“It was better in the morning, in the shade.”

Two minutes go by. He looks at his cell phone and takes a few pictures. She follows the children playing soccer with her eyes and he looks up at the faces of the older people framed by their windows. He says:

“They have the best view.”

“Who?”

“The people in the windows.”

“It’s odd.”

“What’s odd?”

“They just seem so small in those windows, each of them fixed in their own dark square. And see how they always stand to one side, never at the center?”

“You think they’re looking at us?”

“I think they’ve seen enough tourists by now.”

“But when will the Virgin go by?”

“Be patient. We need to wait.”

“Should we go get something to eat?”

“You just ate.”

“It was only a cornetto. Should we have lunch and come back?”

“If we have lunch now we won’t be hungry at eight. I booked us a table at a restaurant that’s always full.”

“Should we get a gelato then?”

“Maybe later, if you want. There’s a good gelateria on the other side of the avenue.”

“Has the piazza changed much?”

“The playground wasn’t here.”

After a moment the husband asks: “Were you with him when you saw the procession for the first time?”

“Who?”

“The guy you were seeing.”

“We were together, but that day he was busy, so I took a walk by myself. It was amazing, I’d crossed the river and then I got completely lost. In those days, without cell phones, you’d get lost all the time in Rome. So I stumbled upon the procession by total chance.”

“Is he on your mind, now that you’re here?”

“We dated for three months.”

“Why don’t you get in touch?”

“It was ages ago.”

“I wouldn’t mind meeting the first love of your life.”

“I want to be here with you.”

As they hold hands, two women, about the same age as the wife, cross the piazza together arm in arm. It’s hard to tell if they’re friends or lovers or sisters. They stride along swiftly, then slip down a side street and vanish. Other women appear, either alone or with children or companions. Mothers with daughters. More and more arrive, chatting and laughing and filling up the piazza. Their hair and the hems of their skirts seem like living things, extending like tentacles from their heads and clothing.

“They have so much to say,” he observes.

“And it always seems so urgent.”

“What are they telling each other? Can you understand?”

“I can only catch a few words.”

“It’s as if they’re all friends.”

“They’re all so stunning.”

“You’re stunning, too.”

“Not like these women.”

“What makes you any different?”

“When I watch them I feel, I don’t know. Too put together.”

“There’s nothing wrong with that.”

“I wish I could exaggerate. I’d like to weigh ten pounds less, or even more, and pull it off like they do. I love their wrinkles and heavy makeup. The emphatic figures, the worn-out sandals.”

“Why?”

“Because it means they’re above perfection. Because they don’t worry about it, which only makes them more beautiful. Because life marks their faces, and they live hard.”

“And we don’t?”

As they speak, on all sides of them, the piazza keeps filling with more people, more laughter, more affectionate greetings.

She withdraws her hand from his and removes a series of pins from her hair, letting it down. She says: “With one of these women, you’d have had another life, a different family.”

“Of course. And so would you, with your Roman boyfriend.”

A group has formed in front of the couple, several generations of a family. The grandmother is still young, a bit chubby. Her hair is dark and short, her lipstick deep red. She holds her granddaughter by the fingertips and helps her step on and off the sidewalk. She dedicates all her attention to their little game. The little girl wobbles, full of excitement and trepidation. At one point she lets go of the grandmother and manages to take a few awkward steps on her own.

The child’s mother is a tall, statuesque woman. She wears a sundress and is very visibly pregnant. She’s talking to other people and isn’t looking at her daughter. The couple observes the scene, but neither the grandmother nor the little girl is aware of being watched. The wife opens and closes the zipper of her purse a few times.

“Do you remember that moment?” he asks.

She shifts her gaze to the little girl’s mother and says: “It’s years since I’ve worn a pretty sundress like that. I used to have so many, who knows where they ended up?”

“We were in the kitchen of our old house.”

“This dress doesn’t really flatter me, I don’t think.”

“We were cooking together.”

Now she glances over at the playground.

“Wasn’t it a Sunday morning? Weren’t we at the park?”

“No, we were home, it was evening. When I looked up he was cutting across the length of the dining room, confident as can be, pushed forward by some mysterious force.”

By now the piazza is buzzing with activity. In the distance, a band has begun to play. Every bench is taken up, every coffee bar full, and more and more people are looking out their windows.

“That’s not how I recall it. In my memory, we were at the park, it was sunny.”

“You’re misremembering.”

“Or you are.”

“How could we have two completely different memories of that moment? The first time he walked on his own?”

“Let it go. Anyway, I don’t think he would have come to Rome with us on this trip.”

“Sure he would have, to celebrate your birthday.”

“He’d have been bored, at twenty-three, hanging out with us.”

“Maybe he’d have brought a girlfriend.”

As they speak, still seated on the low wall, a few women, all middle-aged, gather around them. They have cropped hair and large breasts and comfortable sandals, and they’re wearing short-sleeved cotton dresses. They take seats in a row along the wall, beside the wife. Only one woman remains standing, and she seems a bit put out.

The wife gets up abruptly and steps aside.

“Prego,” she says.

The standing woman sits down right away, without thanking her.

“Why did you give up your spot?” the husband asks.

“I don’t know. Because I felt in the way.”

“You’re the one who wanted to come early. Sit here,” he says. But as soon as he stands up, the pregnant woman takes his place.“Now we’ll have to stand in the sun the entire time.”

“Let’s go back.”

“Back where?”

“To the apartment.”

“Now?”

“Yes, now.”

“What about the Virgin? The music’s getting louder, she must be close.”

“I don’t feel like waiting for her anymore.”

“What do you mean? You’ve been talking to me about this procession for months.”

The piazza, by now overflowing with people, has turned pleasantly rowdy. The procession is approaching the crowd, though the Virgin has yet to make her appearance. It’s hard to notice the tears in the woman’s eyes. No one, apart from the husband, who holds her in his arms, pays them heed.

The couple has returned to the apartment. A breeze stirs the curtains in the living room window. He’s eating a slice of pizza bianca on the couch and reading a guidebook. She’s sitting at the piano and pressing on keys. She leafs through the lesson book on the piano stand.

“Where’s the trattoria we’re going to tonight? Can we walk there?” he asks.

“A family used to live here.”

“If there’s time, I’d like to walk over to the church of Santa Cecilia.”

“There was a little boy or girl who took piano lessons. I see notes from whoever taught them.”

“Do you know the church of Santa Cecilia?”

She doesn’t reply. She walks into the dining room and opens the crockery cupboard. The hinges squeak. The insides of the cupboard doors are lined with cheery turquoise paper. She looks at all the tablecloths folded and stacked inside. She breathes in their smell.

“Let’s eat at home. It’s hot, some melon and prosciutto will be fine.”

“What about the reservation?”

“We can go another day.”

“You keep changing your mind.”

She starts to clear off the surface of the dining table, gathering up the objects in batches and moving them into another room.

“What are you doing now?”

“Setting the table. I’ll put this stuff on the bed for now.”

“Can’t we eat at the small table in the kitchen?”

“Let’s eat here.”

“Under the chandelier that makes you nervous?”

“Yes.”

After she’s cleared everything off the table she pulls out a tablecloth and spreads it on top, then closes the cupboard doors. She makes several trips to the kitchen and returns with two plates, silverware, napkins, glasses, place mats, a jug of water. She plants two candles into the silver candlesticks. She asks:

“Why don’t we have a cupboard like this, lined with pretty paper? With all the tablecloths so nicely organized, one for each day of the week?”

“You always complain that tablecloths get stained.”

“We should also get those thick fragrant soaps for the bathroom, the ones that foam up. They make you want to wash your hands every time you see them.”

“Don’t you like our house?”

“I’m just asking.”

“Asking what?”

“What it would have been like to raise our son in a place like this.”

He closes the guidebook and sets it on the coffee table. Then he stands and walks over to the window, nudging the curtains apart and looking outside for a moment with his back to his wife.

“Different.”

“Would he have slept in the room that’s locked?”

“Stop.”

“Would he have played with other kids in that piazza?”

“Don’t ask these questions. Please.”

“And when the ball slipped away and he ran after it, what if we were here, not there?”

He turns around to look at his wife, who is still fussing with the table.

“He was twelve years old. He knew how to cross the street.”

She returns to the piano and starts rummaging again through the bowl of keys. Taking the whole bowl with her, she vanishes down the corridor. She comes back a minute later, frustrated.

“The keys don’t work.”

“What are you trying to open?”

“The room that’s locked.”

“That room’s not for us.”

“I just want to see it.”

He pours a glass of water from the jug on the table and offers it to his wife.

“Drink this. Take a bath. In a little bit I’ll make dinner and we can open a bottle of wine.”

She drinks some water. In her other hand she’s still holding the bowl of keys. She finishes drinking and gives the glass to her husband. She tells him:

“Let’s go.”

“Where?”

“Let’s leave.”

“What are you saying?”

“I don’t want to spend the next six weeks in Rome. I want to go back to our house. And I want to leave this one in the meantime.”

“We’ve already rented it.”

“Plans change.”

“It’s lovely, it’s comfortable, there’s a nice breeze that blows through. You were just going on about the soap.”

“I’d rather sleep in a hotel with other tourists. I can’t stay here anymore.”

Without warning she throws the bowl full of keys on the floor. All the keys scatter across the parquet, around their feet. She asks her husband, calmly and quietly: “Why won’t that room open?”

He doesn’t answer. On all fours, he begins to gather the scattered keys from the floor. He sets the bowl on top of the piano and says:

“Get ahold of yourself. There’s nothing waiting for you in that room. Nothing but the grief already inside you.”

She sits on the piano bench and looks at the lesson book. She studies the notes, absorbed by them, comprehending nothing of what they mean. She raises her hands as if she’s about to play, but then she makes two fists that land lightly on the keys, producing a disagreeable sound. She draws the lid over the piano keys. When all is quiet again, she gets up and searches for her cell phone. She finds it on the table. She sits down and dials a number, waits for it to ring, then says slowly, in Italian, “Buona sera, do you have a double room available for tonight?”

She waits for an answer and is about to say something when she’s interrupted by a deafening noise inside the house, coming from another room. The crash is violent, overwhelming.

He rushes to check the rooms, but she stays seated at the table, motionless, under the chandelier. Eventually, she ends the call and sets down her cellphone beside an empty plate.

“What happened?” she asks her husband when he returns.

“One of the French doors in the kitchen slammed shut.”

“And?”

“It cracked. A section of the glass shattered.”

He walks over to his wife, sits beside her at the table.

“Now what do we do?”

“We need to call someone to fix it. And let the landlords know.”

“Will they be upset?”

“These things happen. It was windy.”

“Who can fix this sort of thing?”

“I don’t know, we’ll have to ask in a hardware store. Is there glass all over the place?”

“I’m afraid so. The shards still attached to the doorframe are dangerous.”

“I’ll go look. There’s a broom on the balcony, behind the washing machine.”

“Be careful. I’d wear a pair of gloves.”

She stands up. Before going to the kitchen she touches her husband’s shoulder and says:

“I’m sorry we missed the procession.”

“It doesn’t matter.”

“I wanted to take you.”

“You’ll always remember it.”

“But you won’t.”

“Next year he’ll have been gone as many years as he was alive.”

“I know.”

She switches on the chandelier. The light, strong and unpleasant, transforms the darkening space into something like a glaring operating room in which, on a Saturday afternoon eleven years before, the doctors had done all they could.

“So we’ll stay?” he asks.

“Yes, I’m sorry.”

“It’s okay.”

“You were right, we should have put a weight in front of those doors.”

“Should we go to the hardware store tomorrow?”

“Tomorrow’s Sunday, they’ll be closed.”

“Right.”

“If we get up early we can go to Porta Portese. Before it gets too hot.”

“What’s there?”

“Pretty much everything. We’ll get lost, you’ll like it.”
