The Lion & the Spider

He yelled and jumped at us, making the long fingers of his left hand Lion’s claws that viciously tickled our ribs. “One, two, three rabbit children all swallowed up in one bite,” my father roared. We jumped and laughed and screamed. He shook the bed we, the children, shared. But watching way up above us was another character who hid in the fist of his right hand, which opened slowly. Anansi the spider appeared before us. “You silly cat,” Anansi said before scurrying to the woods, across the mattress and our heads, his tiny legs quick-moving fingers. He disappeared into the bush searching for something special.

Graduation was two weeks away. My father: gone for months.

The day he’d left, my father had said, “I have some business I need to see to.”

“And you’re leaving today?” I’d said as evenly as possible. I had become a devotee to a religion of my own creation. Its most integral ritual was maintaining a precise calm especially when angry, when hurt, when terrified. People like my father, who yelled freely in English and Twi whenever things were bad, were heretics to be ignored or hated.

“Yes. Flying out later. I’ll be back in two weeks. Your mother is doing fine. The doctors say she’s all right. You’re in charge for now. Make sure your sister keeps up with her studies.” He’d handed me forty dollars. This was the first I’d heard of the trip. He would fly across an ocean to the country where both he and my mother were born and raised.

“Be back soon,” he’d said that afternoon as he got into the cab.

“Okay. I’ll see you later, I guess.”

When he’d first left, I’d gone to my mother. She’d been quiet and reserved. She’d been sick for a long time by then. Unable to work, she spent most of her days in our house. Then foreclosure swept us up, and she spent most of her days in the apartment we’d rented my senior year.

“He’ll be back soon,” she said. Her calm hurt and impressed me.

Now, after months without, I’d decided that he wasn’t coming back and was settling into life at the home improvement store. I spent five to eleven, six days a week, digging away at the guts of dusty, cavernous shipment trucks. My title was “unload specialist.” There were three of us.

If our adventures unpacking the truck were made into a movie, Cato, who was only a few years older than I was, would have been the strapping young hero. The one you looked to in times of crisis. The other guy, Reese, was probably the same age as my father. He would be the wily old adventurer on his last legs, on the brink of giving up, a few missed cigarettes from a breakdown, but persisting because his experience in the field made him one of a kind, because he was the only one of us who knew how to use the forklift, and because maybe he hadn’t quite found his treasure yet. My role, I knew, was the guy who would lose an arm in the second half of the film, maybe saving one of the other two, or one of the real stars would get hurt saving me, which would set me up to lead in the sequel. We were the Unload Team, not unlike the Justice League or the Avengers. The Specialists.

Before every shift, we tossed on red and blue vests, and were transformed. They were thin nylon, weightless but still annoying. Reese wore a company-issued back supporter. Cato wore one of the company hats turned backward. I didn’t have any special thing, but not having a thing when the other two did was kind of like having a thing in its own way.

To start a shift, Carter, the overnight manager, would give us something like a pep talk as our cave of untreasures backed into the receiving bay. Beep. “We’ve got two big ones coming.” Beep. “But I know we can bust these things down.” Beep. “All the pallets are out, and there’s a forklift ready.” Beep. “Let’s get it.” Beep. “Let’s fucking go!” There was a thunderous cough when the mouths of the goliath white trailers kissed the opening of the bay.

We spent most of our time in that receiving bay: a huge concrete space with three giant garage doors. Reese would bring a bolt cutter to the lock that kept the trailer’s door closed. We made a little ceremony of it. Reese’s veins would puff from his neck as he squeezed the cutter’s arms together. We cheered when the metal snapped. Once the bolt was cut, Cato and I would pull the door and slide it up with a careful push. Sometimes an avalanche of tile sets, or caulking material, or whatever would fall out.

We used wood pallets to group things together. We had a system. “Have gloves on whenever you’re back here,” Reese had said early on. We used gloves with red wax on the fingers, but I still pulled splinters out of my palms almost daily.

Lion was very pleased with himself. His belly was full—at that, my father put air in his stomach and rubbed it to remind us what a full belly looked like. “It is a shame, though,” Lion said, while rubbing his belly. “I was in such a rush to eat I didn’t even get to taste the rabbit children.”

Lion fell asleep happily in a tree. In his sleep he dreamed of how shocked Rabbit Mother would be when she saw that her family had disappeared. Lion smiled as he thought of the trickster Anansi, who would have no time to plan some foolishness to keep him from the magic potion he’d promised if Lion was able to beat him in a race to the mountaintop.

For the Specialists, the truck trailers were villain, purpose, and home. Between eight and nine, we’d get to the heavy stuff, the big appliances. We’d use hand trucks and pallet jacks. Sometimes Reese had to drive one of the forklifts up into the truck. A fully preassembled workbench moves about as easily as an elephant, but dryers are lighter than you would expect.

One time Cato went for a tower of two stacked washing machines held together by a web of translucent blue plastic wrapped around the middle of their two cardboard boxes.

“Hercules,” he called out to us as he slid the lip of his hand truck underneath the cardboard. He kicked it farther in, then pulled back. That was his catch phrase. He’d say “Hercules” when he was showing off, soloing stuff that probably needed more than one person.

“Hercules,” I called back in support as I pulled a dryer onto a pallet jack. I was the sidekick and proud of it.

Cato made a sound like a piece of food was caught in his throat. By the time I looked up, the two washing machines were teetering, then tackling down. I made a lunge in his direction, but the crash came first. I yelled. Reese dragged as I pushed the washing machines off Cato. Our fear made us strong, and we tossed the heavy boxes aside quickly but carefully enough not to damage anything, because whenever there were damages to the big machines, the loss-prevention guy tried to chop our heads off.

Cato groaned beneath the boxes. I wasn’t sure how he’d be when we got them off him. We moved the washing machines and looked at him. His back on the dusty truck floor, the hand truck above him. “I’m good,” he said. The hand truck, as our safety tutorials had explained, had rods on either side that kept you from getting all the way crushed should a load ever be too heavy. He’d been pinned down, bruised up maybe, but he was fine.

“Hercules,” he mumbled, laughing off his embarrassment as me and Reese helped him up.

“Hercules,” Reese said back.

I didn’t have any brothers, but Cato was exactly what I imagined having one would be like. In high school, when Cato was a senior and I was a sophomore, he’d been one of the kinder gods of the school. He had been the second fastest in the state in the two hundred meters, and that meant he didn’t really have to be nice to anybody. He’d torn his MCL near the end of his senior year, and it’d been a tragedy for our school. The colleges that had shown interest in him snatched their offers back. And here he was still.

We took our breaks at the same time, and when he had his mother’s car, he’d drive me home so I wouldn’t have to walk. I’d helped him create a comprehensive list ranking all the women in each of the store’s departments based on a complicated attractiveness matrix. Later, in response to our list, two cashiers made a list ranking all the guys. Cato, of course, was ranked number one. I’d ranked twelfth, which felt like an accomplishment. It was a big department store.

Sometimes, when we had lunch, Cato would get serious, and say something like, “You gotta get outta here, man. Don’t get stuck.”

I wanted to quit more than I wanted anything else the day Cato got pinned by the washing machines. If I’d known where my father was, if I didn’t need every cent of the $10.10 per hour I was making, I would have.

I had to stay. The trucks became night, and dreading the trucks became the day. I went from school to the trucks, and from the trucks to sleep. I hardly saw my sister or my mother. I avoided them. When I did see my sister, I tried to be fatherly. “How was school today?” I’d ask.

“You were there,” she’d reply. She was only a few years younger. She did me the mercy of pretending everything was normal. We were good at that. Acting, ignoring our own disintegrating.

In the foam bed on the floor, I’d whined and tried not to cry. “No! He didn’t eat Mother Rabbit’s children. It’s not fair.” I couldn’t accept it. The stories my father told us had great power. I made sure to let my outrage sing whenever they veered from the path I believed was best. Not to mention that Mother Rabbit’s children happened to have the same names as my sister, my mother, and I did. All his stories found a way to make stars of us.

My father shushed me. “Just listen to the story,” he said.

My collegiate ascent was a big topic in the shipment bay. The guys cheered me on. They joked that I shouldn’t forget them when I was a nuclear physicist or the president or a veterinarian. I didn’t tell them that the entire process had been halted by my father’s disappearance. If he didn’t return, I would remain and work up to a managerial spot. I’d become someone like Carter, a fate that filled me with an anguish that felt like lead in my stomach. So far as they knew, I was deciding between a school upstate, a school in the city, and another one in Connecticut.

“Well, you trust me,” Reese said to me one day while I was helping him lay bags of enriched soil out on a pallet. “They’re gonna be begging you to fuck ’em wherever you go.” Then he smiled the way he did whenever he said something inappropriate, showing his cigarette-stained top teeth.

Reese had long skinny arms, and he always smelled like cigarette smoke. Often, he’d suck on his cheeks and move his mouth like something was stuck to his gums. I didn’t know anyone else like him. I would have liked to make him proud, even though, when I’d first started, Cato had put it in my head that Reese was some kind of racist.

“He said something about niggers, man,” Cato had told me my third week working in the store. “I heard it, hard er at the end of it, too. I’m 98 percent sure. He didn’t see me. He was on the phone. I think he was talking to his wife or something.”

I didn’t like to disagree with Cato if I could avoid it, but I told him that I didn’t think Reese was like that. I liked to think that if he was a racist, because of me and Cato, at some point he’d gone home to his wife, and while they were at dinner or just sitting in front of the TV, he’d have something on the tip of his tongue. He’d be fidgety, almost nervous, and eventually he’d say something like, “Did ya know I work with two niggers?” His wife, who was also probably racist, would look up at him, waiting for a point, and after sliding some peas back and forth a few times on his plate, Reese would finish his thought. “They’re not so bad.” And he’d say it in a way that wouldn’t mean that black people were generally okay. That would be too embarrassing for him to admit at almost fifty-two or however old he was. He’d mean it like we, specifically us two, were okay even though somewhere, by extension, he’d feel that maybe he’d been wrong about black people his whole life.

“Ah, Lion, I was beginning to think you had run off into the night,” Anansi said the morning of their big race. When he was Anansi, my father’s voice was wise and small. “Are you ready to run for the lives of the rabbit family? Remember, you have agreed that if I make it to the top of the highest of the Togo Mountains, you will cut off your own tail and leave the rabbit family alone for good.”

Since the night before, Lion’s belly had pained him terribly. My father held his stomach and groaned. Lion could feel the three rabbit children in his stomach. They were much heavier than Lion had anticipated.

The middle of the truck always felt endless. There’d be boxes of stuff packed so tightly that they’d cram up against the ceiling. Pulling the wrong thing made the towers fall.

To make things easier, I played little games in my head. Like, I imagined that if we worked fast enough, at the back of the truck, behind that final wall of washing machines and fridges, there would be something amazing: a bag of money, a baby, gold, anything. I’d choose something specific, though. If it was a baby, it’d be a lost child with a name: Cristie. We’d only know this because of the note left behind with her. I’d pull away a Whirlpool, and there she would be, little baby Cristie, a note tucked into the folds of the soft blanket she was wrapped in: Please take care. I know you are better suited than I am. Please, love her. I love her. I love you, Cristie. Goodbye. I love you.

The baby and the note would obviously be a shocking discovery even for the Specialists, and for, like, five minutes we wouldn’t know what to do. We’d take turns holding the baby, then, almost sadly, we’d call a manager, and he’d call the police. Of course, we’d stop working for the day. For years following, me, Cato, and Reese would all keep track of Cristie; we’d be secret faraway fathers, sending her anonymous little treasures, and she’d be known locally by some kind of nickname that fused baby words and home improvement stuff: Tool-born Tyke. Or whatever.

But when we got to the very end, all that work ended in a tall slab of nothing, always.

“On your mark, set, go!” Monkey called out from a tree. Lion leaped forward toward the base of the mountain to begin his climb. Lion looked back at Anansi, who was already far behind him. When my father became Lion, he made his voice big and mean. “You’ve grown foolish, spider,” Lion said as he began to climb the great mountain. “I am the fastest in the jungle.” He thought, I have already eaten the rabbit children and now I will win this race and you will have to give me your magic potion. Far behind Lion, Anansi walked through the lands slowly. His head was down, as though he were not interested in the mountain at all.

“Ah, Anansi, why don’t you run, oh?” Monkey asked. “Do you not want to save these poor rabbit children?”

“I have already saved the children, brother. Now I will embarrass this silly cat,” Anansi said.

“Ah, Anansi. Lion is already at the mountain. If you do not run now, you will surely lose.”

“You will see,” Anansi said. “You will see.”

Years earlier, when we’d had the house, my father had agreed to take my neighbor, Jerry, and me to the movies. We’d looked forward to it all week. My father told us we’d be leaving at 7 p.m. to catch the 7:30 show. The day of, my father’s car pulled into the driveway around 6:55. Jerry and I were in the middle of a third round of mashing our controllers. A Japanese martial artist kicked a mutant in the face. “Your father’s outside,” my mother called. His horn honked once, a long hard blow that almost carried my father’s voice on it. I felt him sitting in the car, waiting. We stopped the game and hurtled down the stairs. When we got outside, the slivers of green grass poking through the breaks in the driveway looked homeless compared to the fullness of the lawn.

Jerry looked at me, confused. “He forgot us?” I walked up to the mailbox. My father’s taillights were still climbing away up our street. I started waving my arms wildly, running hard up the hill. I wanted it to seem like a joke. Jerry ran with me. I was screaming, “Dad, Dad! We’re here! We’re here!” Jerry screamed, “Hey! Hey!” The whole time we scrambled, our arms waving like the blow-up thing outside the Nissan dealership. “Dad, Dad!” I called. He slowed down for oncoming traffic, then turned and sped off onto Route 42.

We walked back sweaty and dazed. The fun of our game chasing the car was lost. Jerry said that maybe it was a joke and that we should wait for him to turn around. I said, “Maybe.”

We looked to my mother for answers. She poured juice. She watched us drink quietly. After he drank his, Jerry went home. When Jerry was gone, I said, “Why would he just leave us? It was a minute.”

“It is just a movie. It will be there,” she said.

“But why did he leave us? We were right there.”

“Be patient with him. He is not patient. So you must be patient,” she said.

“It isn’t fair,” I said, slowly explaining facts.

“It will be there. He wants to do things his way. He’ll take you later,” she said.

I was disappointed because I thought it was obvious that I’d never want to go with him anywhere ever again.

“Mother Earth, Mother Earth,” Anansi called out. “Mother Earth.” The earth shook, as did the foam mattress when my father pulled and pushed it quickly.

“Anansi, you have called my name,” Mother Earth called back to Anansi, her voice in the wind and the trees.

“Beautiful Mother Earth, I have a small request to make of you.”

“You ask before you give, Anansi?” The earth trembled. Monkey fell out of his tree.

“No! Never! Great Mother, I give in promises and work before I ask,” Anansi spoke, and bowed his head to the ground.

“What have you given?” Mother Earth asked.

“I’ve planted these seeds to you and promise they will add to your beauty,” Anansi said without bringing his gaze up from the ground.

“I’ve seen the work you have done. What is it that you request?”

“I ask only for a small breeze, a kind wind down this path and up the great mountain,” Anansi said.

“My son’s getting ready to graduate, too,” Reese said to me one day in the truck. I grabbed two boxes of beware-of-the-dog and stay-off-the-grass signs.

“What’s his name?” I asked.

“He’s a junior. Reese Junior. We call him RJ.”

“Cool,” I said. “Where’s he thinking of going?” I had never heard of Reese’s son before.

“Probably he’ll do a year or two at the community college, then we’ll see from there,” Reese said.

“I might do that, too,” I said. Most people I knew had already committed to glimmering universities. I’d told the school upstate, the school in Connecticut, and the school in the city I’d see them in the fall and that they should expect my initial deposit soon.

“Nah, you won’t,” Reese said. He was encouraging me. He was sure of my future in a way I was not.

With a small blade of grass in his hands, Anansi felt the great push of Mother Earth. Her hand carried him down the path and up the great mountain. Lion struggled only a few feet from the bottom. Anansi screamed from the top of the winds. “You’ve got rocks in your belly, you silly cat. I knew you would do evil so I put rocks in the rabbit children’s bed.” Lion roared and tried to swipe Anansi as he rode his blade of grass up the great mountain. He could not. On the mountaintop, Anansi laughed and laughed.

He reappeared a week before graduation. Three and a half months later than expected. Three months without any contact at all. I was with Reese. That day there was no truck, so they put us in the paint section to support. I saw him before he saw me. I hoped I looked as different as I felt. I felt strong. He noticed me. I felt headless. He waved wildly. He started walking faster, as if he’d just then realized he was late. He wore his jean shorts and his leather sandals. He called my name twice even though it was clear I’d already seen him. He reached me. He put a hand on my shoulder.

“Dad,” I said. I thought, There’s food in the fridge because of me. I went to prom. I imagined you gone forever, and I survived.

I thought, Thank you. I don’t know why.

Reese looked up from the cans he was arranging. “Is this your dad here?” he said, taking off a glove and offering his hand. “You’ve got a fine son.” My father took it and said in a friendly laugh, “Yes, he’s a big man.” He turned his attention to me. Reese walked away from us to the other side of the long aisle near different shades of tan and green. “I just got in. Is this your job, waiting around with paint?” He laughed. “I don’t want to keep you from your working.”

He patted me on the shoulder again.

“Dad,” I said, not wanting to be calm but not knowing how to do anything but breathe.

“I’ll be waiting in the lot. You need a ride, right?”

I said, “Yes, I do.”
