B.C. 507

There have been times when the devotion of one man has been the saving of an army. Such, according to old Roman story, was the feat of Horatius Cocles. It was in the year B.C. 507, not long after the kings had been expelled from Rome, when they were endeavoring to return by the aid of the Etruscans. Lars Porsena, one of the great Etruscan chieftains, had taken up the cause of the banished Tarquinius Superbus and his son Sextus, and gathered all his forces together, to advance upon the city of Rome. The great walls, of old Etrurian architecture, had probably already risen round the growing town, and all the people came flocking in from the country for shelter there; but the Tiber was the best defense, and it was only crossed by one wooden bridge, and the farther side of that was guarded by a fort, called the Janiculum. But the vanguards of the overwhelming Etruscan army soon took the fort, and then, in the gallant words of Lord Macaulay's ballad,--

'Thus in all the Senate There was no heart so boldBut sore it ached, and fast it beat, When that ill news was told.Forthwith uprose the Consul, Up rose the Fathers all,In haste they girded up their gowns, And hied them to the wall.

'They held a council standing Before the River Gate:Short time was there, ye well may guess, For musing or debate.Out spoke the Consul roundly, 'The bridge must straight go down,For, since Janiculum is lost, Nought else can save the town.'

'Just then a scout came flying, All wild with haste and fear:'To arms! To arms! Sir Consul, Lars Porsena is here.'On the low hills to westward The Consul fixed his eye,And saw the swarthy storm of dust Rise fast along the sky.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

'But the Consul's brow was sad, And the Consul's speech was low,And darkly looked he at the wall, And darkly at the foe.'Their van will be upon us Before the bridge goes down;And if they once may win the bridge What hope to save the town?'

'Then out spoke brave Horatius, The Captain of the Gate,'To every man upon this earth Death cometh soon or late;And how can man die better Than facing fearful odds,For the ashes of his fathers, And the temples of his gods?

'And for the tender mother Who dandled him to rest,And for the wife who nurses His baby at her breast?And for the holy maidens Who feed the eternal flame,To save them from false Sextus, That wrought the deed of shame?

'Hew down the bridge, Sir Consul, With all the speed ye may,I, with two more to help me, Will hold the foe in play.In yon strait path a thousand May well be stopp'd by three:Now who will stand on either hand, And keep the bridge with me?'

'Then out spake Spurius Lartius, A Ramnian proud was he,'Lo, I will stand at thy right hand, And keep the bridge with thee.'And out spake strong Herminius, Of Titian blood was he,'I will abide on thy left side, And keep the bridge with thee.'

So forth went these three brave men, Horatius, the Consul's nephew, Spurius Lartius, and Titus Herminius, to guard the bridge at the farther end, while all the rest of the warriors were breaking down the timbers behind them.

'And Fathers mixed with commons, Seized hatchet, bar, and crow,And smote upon the planks above, And loosen'd them below.'Meanwhile the Tuscan army, Right glorious to behold,Came flashing back the noonday light,Rank behind rank, like surges bright, Of a broad sea of gold.Four hundred trumpets sounded A peal of warlike glee,As that great host, with measured tread,And spears advanced, and ensigns spread,Roll'd slowly towards the bridge's head, Where stood the dauntless three.

'The three stood calm and silent, And look'd upon the foes,And a great shout of laughter From all the vanguard rose.'

They laughed to see three men standing to meet the whole army; but it was so narrow a space, that no more than three enemies could attack them at once, and it was not easy to match them. Foe after foe came forth against them, and went down before their swords and spears, till at last--

'Was none that would be foremost To lead such dire attack;But those behind cried 'Forward!' And those before cried 'Back!'

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

However, the supports of the bridge had been destroyed.

'But meanwhile axe and lever Have manfully been plied,And now the bridge hangs tottering Above the boiling tide.'Come back, come back, Horatius!' Loud cried the Fathers all;'Back, Lartius! Back, Herminius! Back, ere the ruin fall!'

'Back darted Spurius Lartius, Herminius darted back;And as they passed, beneath their feet They felt the timbers crack;But when they turn'd their faces, And on the farther shoreSaw brave Horatius stand alone, They would have cross'd once more.

'But with a crash like thunder Fell every loosen'd beam,And, like a dam, the mighty wreck Lay right athwart the stream;And a long shout of triumph Rose from the walls of Rome,As to the highest turret-tops Was splashed the yellow foam.'

The one last champion, behind a rampart of dead enemies, remained till the destruction was complete.

'Alone stood brave Horatius, But constant still in mind,Thrice thirty thousand foes before And the broad flood behind.'

A dart had put out one eye, he was wounded in the thigh, and his work was done. He turned round, and--

 'Saw on Palatinus, The white porch of his home,And he spake to the noble river That rolls by the walls of Rome:'O Tiber! father Tiber! To whom the Romans pray,A Roman's life, a Roman's arms Take thou in charge this day.'

And with this brief prayer he leapt into the foaming stream. Polybius was told that he was there drowned; but Livy gives the version which the ballad follows:--

'But fiercely ran the current, Swollen high by months of rain,And fast his blood was flowing, And he was sore in pain,And heavy with his armor, And spent with changing blows,And oft they thought him sinking, But still again he rose.

'Never, I ween, did swimmer, In such an evil case,Struggle through such a raging flood Safe to the landing place.But his limbs were borne up bravely By the brave heart within,And our good father Tiber Bare bravely up his chin.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

'And now he feels the bottom, Now on dry earth he stands,Now round him throng the Fathers, To press his gory hands.And now with shouts and clapping, And noise of weeping loud,He enters through the River Gate, Borne by the joyous crowd.

'They gave him of the corn land, That was of public right,As much as two strong oxen Could plough from morn to night.And they made a molten image, And set it up on high,And there it stands unto this day, To witness if I lie.

'It stands in the Comitium, Plain for all folk to see,Horatius in his harness, Halting upon his knee:And underneath is written, In letters all of gold,How valiantly he kept the bridge In the brave days of old.'

Never was more honorable surname than his, of Cocles, or the one-eyed; and though his lameness prevented him from ever being a Consul, or leading an army, he was so much beloved and honored by his fellow citizens, that in the time of a famine each Roman, to the number of 300,000, brought him a day's food, lest he should suffer want. The statue was shown even in the time of Pliny, 600 years afterwards, and was probably only destroyed when Rome was sacked by the barbarians.

Nor was the Roman bridge the only one that has been defended by one man against a host. In our own country, Stamford Bridge was, in like manner, guarded by a single brave Northman, after the battle fought A.D. 1066, when Earl Tostig, the son of Godwin, had persuaded the gallant sea king, Harald Hardrada, to come and invade England. The chosen English king, Harold, had marched at full speed from Sussex to Yorkshire, and met the invaders marching at their ease, without expecting any enemy, and wearing no defensive armor, as they went forth to receive the keys of the city of York. The battle was fought by the Norsemen in the full certainty that it must be lost. The banner, 'Landwaster', was planted in the midst; and the king, chanting his last song, like the minstrel warrior he had always been, stood, with his bravest men, in a death ring around it. There he died, and his choicest warriors with him; but many more fled back towards the ships, rushing over the few planks that were the only way across the River Ouse. And here stood their defender, alone upon the bridge, keeping back the whole pursuing English army, who could only attack him one at a time; until, with shame be it spoken, he died by a cowardly blow by an enemy, who had crept down the bank of the river, and under the bridge, through the openings between the timbers of which he thrust up his spear, and thus was able to hurl the brave Northman into the river, mortally wounded, but not till great numbers of his countrymen had reached their ships, their lives saved by his gallantry.

In like manner, Robert Bruce, in the time of his wanderings, during the year 1306, saved his whole band by his sole exertions. He had been defeated by the forces of Edward I. at Methven, and had lost many of his friends. His little army went wandering among the hills, sometimes encamping in the woods, sometimes crossing the lakes in small boats. Many ladies were among them, and their summer life had some wild charms of romance; as the knightly huntsmen brought in the salmon, the roe, and the deer that formed their food, and the ladies gathered the flowering heather, over which soft skins were laid for their bedding. Sir James Douglas was the most courtly and graceful knight of all the party, and ever kept them enlivened by his gay temper and ready wit; and the king himself cherished a few precious romances, which he used to read aloud to his followers as they rested in their mountain home.

But their bitter foe, the Lord of Lorn, was always in pursuit of them, and, near the head of the Tay, he came upon the small army of 300 men with 1000 Highlanders, armed with Lochaber axes, at a place which is still called Dalry, or the King's Field. Many of the horses were killed by the axes; and James Douglas and Gilbert de la Haye were both wounded. All would have been slain or fallen into the hand of the enemy, if Robert Bruce had not sent them all on before him, up a narrow, steep path, and placed himself, with his armor and heavy horse, full in the path, protecting the retreat with his single arm. It was true, that so tall and powerful a man, sheathed in armor and on horseback, had a great advantage against the wild Highlanders, who only wore a shirt and a plaid, with a round target upon the arm; but they were lithe, active, light-footed men, able to climb like goats on the crags around him, and holding their lives as cheaply as he did.

Lorn, watching him from a distance, was struck with amazement, and exclaimed, 'Methinks, Marthokson, he resembles Gol Mak Morn protecting his followers from Fingal;' thus comparing him to one the most brilliant champions a Highland imagination could conceive. At last, three men, named M'Androsser, rushed forward, resolved to free their chief from this formidable enemy. There was a lake on one side, and a precipice on the other, and the king had hardly space to manage his horse, when all three sprang on him at once. One snatched his bridle, one caught him by the stirrup and leg, and a third leaped from a rising ground and seated himself behind him on his horse. The first lost his arm by one sweep of the king's sword; the second was overthrown and trampled on; and the last, by a desperate struggle, was dashed down, and his skull cleft by the king's sword; but his dying grasp was so tight upon the plaid that Bruce was forced to unclasp the brooch that secured it, and leave both in the dead man's hold. It was long preserved by the Macdougals of Lorn, as a trophy of the narrow escape of their enemy.

Nor must we leave Robert the Bruce without mentioning that other Golden Deed, more truly noble because more full of mercy; namely, his halting his little army in full retreat in Ireland in the face of the English host under Roger Mortimer, that proper care and attendance might be given to one sick and suffering washerwoman and her new-born babe. Well may his old Scotch rhyming chronicler remark:--

'This was a full great courtesyThat swilk a king and so mighty,Gert his men dwell on this manner,But for a poor lavender.'

We have seen how the sturdy Roman fought for his city, the fierce Northman died to guard his comrades' rush to their ships after the lost battle, and how the mail-clad knightly Bruce periled himself to secure the retreat of his friends. Here is one more instance, from far more modern times, of a soldier, whose willing sacrifice of his own life was the safety of a whole army. It was in the course of the long dismal conflict between Frederick the Great of Prussia and Maria Theresa of Austria, which was called the Seven Years' War. Louis XV. of France had taken the part of Austria, and had sent an army into Germany in the autumn of 1760. From this the Marquis de Castries had been dispatched, with 25,000 men, towards Rheinberg, and had taken up a strong position at Klostercamp. On the night of the 15th of October, a young officer, called the Chevalier d'Assas, of the Auvergne regiment, was sent out to reconnoitre, and advanced alone into a wood, at some little distance from his men. Suddenly he found himself surrounded by a number of soldiers, whose bayonets pricked his breast, and a voice whispered in his ear, 'Make the slightest noise, and you are a dead man!' In one moment he understood it all. The enemy were advancing, to surprise the French army, and would be upon them when night was further advanced. That moment decided his fate. He shouted, as loud as his voice would carry the words, 'Here, Auvergne! Here are the enemy!' By the time the cry reached the ears of his men, their captain was a senseless corpse; but his death had saved the army; the surprise had failed, and the enemy retreated.

Louis XV was too mean-spirited and selfish to feel the beauty of this brave action; but when, fourteen years later, Louis XVI came to the throne, he decreed that a pension should be given to the family as long as a male representative remained to bear the name of D'Assas. Poor Louis XVI had not long the control of the treasure of France; but a century of changes, wars, and revolutions has not blotted out the memory of the self-devotion of the chevalier; for, among the new war-steamers of the French fleet, there is one that bears the ever-honored name of D'Assas.