Little Claus and Great Claus share an unequal arrangement in which Little Claus lends his only horse all week and receives Great Claus’s four horses on Sundays. When Little Claus boasts that all five horses are his, Great Claus kills his lone horse. Little Claus takes the hide to sell, but while seeking shelter overnight, he discovers a farmer’s wife secretly entertaining a sexton. Using the creaking hide as a supposed magical conjurer, he convinces the farmer that it has produced hidden food and wine and revealed a devil resembling the sexton. The farmer buys the “conjurer” for a bushel of money and makes Little Claus take away the chest containing the hidden sexton. Little Claus then threatens to throw the chest into a river, prompting the sexton to buy his freedom for another bushel of money.

Seeing Little Claus’s wealth and believing it came from selling the horsehide, Great Claus kills and skins all four of his horses. When he demands a bushel of money for each hide, the townspeople beat and drive him away. Seeking revenge, he tries to murder Little Claus in bed but unknowingly strikes Little Claus’s already-dead grandmother instead. Little Claus places her body in a cart and tricks a hot-tempered innkeeper into believing he has killed her, receiving another bushel of money in exchange for his silence. Great Claus then kills his own grandmother, expecting to sell her body, but terrifies an apothecary by confessing and flees empty-handed.

Enraged, Great Claus puts Little Claus in a sack and carries him toward the river to drown him. When Great Claus pauses at a church, Little Claus persuades an elderly cattle drover to take his place in the sack by claiming it will send him to heaven. Great Claus drowns the drover, while Little Claus leaves with the man’s cattle. When Great Claus later encounters Little Claus alive with the herd, Little Claus claims that underwater people gave him “sea-cattle.” Greedy Great Claus asks to be thrown into the river so he can obtain cattle too. Little Claus ties him in a sack with a heavy stone and pushes him into the water, where Great Claus sinks, leaving Little Claus to return home with the herd.